is anyone else as excited for football
as I am I am excited for football to
come back right and I'm going to be
asking to preach uh on Sunday evenings
more often especially with this new flat
screen here we can uh have the game
going I think I think he'll be all right
right um now the topic this evening guys
is something that's that's been on my
heart and my my mind for the last year
or so something that I've really uh been
working on and myself and so I wanted to
uh wanted to share it with you guys and
tonight I want to talk about work and I
want to talk specifically about the work
of the
church uh I do want to preface the
lesson okay because I I shared my idea
with a couple people and I got some
mixed uh some mixed reviews um someone
told me that it might be too
preachy someone uh told me that I might
possibly be stepping on toes
someone else told me that it was a great
idea and a lesson that that needs to be
preached and then the last person
through
text uh said oh
snaps the moving Ministry better get a
shout
out and so I'll let you guys uh figure
out yourselves who that was um but I do
want to say guys my my aim this evening
is is not to be judgmental my aim this
evening is not to step on toes or to rub
anyone the wrong way uh but rather to to
motivate and encourage uh each of you as
individuals but us collectively as a
congregation as well so wanted to just
just get that out there so most of you
guys know I love to coach football I
love football I love to coach football
I've coached High School football for
the last 12 years
um the game is more than just X's and
O's and the game it's more than just
when
football games um using a game that
these kids are compassionate about I can
help teach them uh I can help build
character teaching them commitment
respect responsibility teamwork ethic
right ethics
um I can help build mental toughness the
ability to push through when things when
things get
hard I can teach them leadership and how
effective leaders true leadership is
leading by
example and we also get to each
sacrifice that you have to give up some
things to obtain the results that you
want all of these are great on the field
but they're also great traits and great
characteristics in the classroom and in
The Game of Life this year I've moved up
to the college level uh for those of you
that don't know uh I am an assistant
offensive line coach at South Eastern
University and uh let me tell you it is
a completely different animal uh then
compared to coaching at the high school
level the very first unit meeting we had
this week our offensive coord or this uh
this fall our offensive coordinator was
talking to the to the offense and He was
discussing our our standards He was
discussing our style of play and He was
discussing our goals and obviously for
every college football team the the
biggest goal that we have is to win a
National
Championship and after talking about
those goals he all he said was men it
takes What It
Takes and I walked out of that meeting
just thinking man that was not very
inspiring uh it wasn't very motiv
motivating you know it takes What It
Takes
um thought it was kind of lackluster I
Googled that word um just to sound smart
uh but this guy has coached at places
like the University of South Florida
he's coached at the University of
Tennessee and here I am first day on the
job and I'm like who am I you know to
question this guy so I took some time I
pondered the statement and what I found
was it actually
has a pretty significant powerful
meaning in those uh five little words it
takes What It Takes means there's no
shortcuts means there's no easy way
out you can't cheat the grind right you
got to earn it you have to put in the
work uh and we've been doing that the
last 3 weeks uh we've had fall Camp
right this is three weeks before anybody
else gets to the school uh these kids
six days a week are busy from 7:00 a.m.
to 9p p.m. uh meetings lifting practice
film
review uh recovery treatment studying
The Playbook they're busy non-stop from
7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. and now that
school's starting they're somehow trying
to figure out how to put uh classwork
and homework and tests and papers you
know any into it but that doesn't matter
it takes What It Takes if we're going to
be a national champion if we're going to
be the best that we can be it takes What
It Takes and we have a lot of successful
people in this room tonight we have a
lot of people who are uh working towards
their own
success and so you know we're willing to
take on extra responsibilities at work
in hopes of a promotion or a raise and
we're willing to work extra hours to
ensure that a job gets done we're
willing to put in extra study time to
ensure we get a good grade on a test and
in return We
sacrifice rest and sleep we sacrifice
meals uh many times I've worked through
lunch uh we sacrifice our own hobbies
and our own interests and we sacrifice
time with our friends and with our
family and I wouldn't even consider
myself a success just yet but I've
personally everything I just listed off
I've personally
done and there's there's nothing wrong
with hard work and success uh The Book
of Proverbs actually talks a lot about
hard workers and the
lazy and it's pretty clear that God does
not want us to be lazy
people but lately I've been wondering
you know what if I took that mindset
that I have with success at work and in
the world and what if I apply it to the
works of the church and what if I
applied it to serving
God Ephesians 2 and verse 10 tells us
that we are created in Christ Jesus for
good works Galatians 6:9 encourages us
to not grow weary while doing good for
in due season we shall reap if we do not
lose
heart in James 2 vers 14 tells us for as
the body without the spirit is
dead so Faith with without works is dead
also I want to make it clear our works
do not save
us but the faith that we have should
drive action and it should bring forth
good
works if you have your Bibles with you
uh tonight please turn to the book of
Nehemiah I want to take a look at uh
three little thoughts on what it takes
to do the work of the church
I'm going to uh summarize we're going to
focus on chapter three and a little bit
in
four I'm going to lay this
down trying to be young like Robert
talked about this morning but I'm not a
big fan of technology so um going to
focus on chapters three and four but so
I want to summarize chapters one and two
very
quickly um Nehemiah was a cup Bearer to
King Artis Xerxes uh these cup bears are
usually high-ranking officials who the
king trusts they serve the wine and they
actually uh they do a taste test right
to see if it's poisonous uh if Nehemiah
were to to die then the king's not going
to drink that wine right and so it has
to be somebody that they
trust Nehemiah was visited by hanani and
some men from Judah who told them that
the survivors in Jerusalem were in great
distress and reproach
the wall of Jerusalem was broken down
and its Gates were burned with fire and
Nehemiah was very upset about this um he
mourned he cried he
prayed he asked for the king's
permission to travel back to Jerusalem
the king allowed him to do so and the
king not only allowed him to do so but
he sent him with letters uh so that he
could pass through some regions and some
some areas uh without harm
and he even sent him with a specific
letter to uh Asaf that he must Supply uh
timber for the wall and other things his
house and things for the temple and then
the king also sent him with captains of
the army and horsemen for protection and
at the end of chapter 2 he goes out at
night with a couple guys and he just
surveys everything at this point he's
not told anybody what he wants to do and
why he came back but he goes back he
surveys the situation and he tells the
men uh that are with him they're going
to rebuild the
wall and so I want to pick up in chapter
3 I got three points uh that I want to
talk about that we can take from chapter
three for the sake of time and and my
own embarrassment uh we're not going to
read chapter 3 uh there are a number of
names in there that I cannot pronounce
and so I don't
uh we're just going to I'll let you read
it on your own okay um for that we'll
say that uh
but as you read through chapter 3 it it
lists the names and the regions of the
people that were involved in the work of
rebuilding the wall there's 38 names
listed there's 42 groups of people
represented you have folks uh rulers or
leaders you have priests you have men
and women you have daughters you have
professional Craftsmen uh merchants and
perfumers and these people people that
are represented are all of different
status different sizes different
strengths different abilities and
they're all working together does that
sound familiar to you guys if you guys
were here last night you saw it in
action we had many people and Bethany I
are very thankful we had many people
stick around to help clean up after the
fish fry we had men women children
Elders deacons all working together to
break down
and to clean up and see these people
that are listed in Nehemiah they all
have their own lives they all have their
own jobs they all have their own
situations that are that are going on
and the point
is they made themselves
available I guess I should have told you
guys the first point my apologies the
first point is it takes
availability okay these people made
themselves available to work they all
have their own lives and in the same the
same way we too have our own lives we
too have our own jobs we have our own
schedules but I want to encourage you
guys to make yourselves available for
the work of the church not only to make
yourselves available but to make it a
priority like these folks have
done Point number two uh is it takes
accountability sticking in Nehemiah
chapter 3 as it's listing the names and
the people in the groups who are working
it also tells the sections of the wall
that they were responsible for to to
repair and rebuild you know some people
repaired bigger sections some people
repaired uh only in front of their
houses but they all had a section that
they were responsible
for and if just one
person didn't take care of the section
that they were working on the wall
wouldn't have been completed in 52
days just one person didn't do their job
didn't repair the section that they were
working on someone else would have had
to step in and take care of
it and so the point here that I want to
make is that when it comes to the work
of the church when we assigned a job or
a task we have to own it right we have
to own it
we have to do it and we have
to not have the mentality that if I
don't do it uh somebody else will okay
take take accountability for what we've
been
assigned and the third thing that I want
to talk about the third point tonight is
it takes adaptability going into
Nehemiah chapter 4 here uh we read we
read of samalot and tobiah and it first
they just start ridiculing the work uh
that Nehemiah
and his uh people are
doing they just want to discourage right
they just want to discourage but that
doesn't work they keep building they
work faster they work
harder and so that made them even more
angry and so they start to threaten
violent
attacks on Nehemiah and the people so
what Nehemiah does is he
takes half of his people and he says hey
you guys are going to keep working I
need you guys to grab your Spears your
swords your bows
and your armor and I need you to stand
guard the enemies hear of this attack or
potential attack and and then they
decide oh they're ready it's not going
to be a you know we're not sneaking up
on it so they decide not to attack and
that's not the point that I want to to
make here the point that I want to make
here is you get down to verse
16 and we read that that Nehemiah
shifted some of the responsibilities as
they went back to work and half of the
servants worked at
construction and those servants still
had their
swords and their Spears and their armor
while they were working they they still
had
it and so everyone had been focused on
building and repairing and some of them
had to completely forget construction
and go to Security even the ones that
stayed on construction had to still be
ready for a potential
attack and what I think that speaks to
here is the reason why I chose the word
adaptability the definition of
adaptability or or or adaptable means
you're able to be modified for a new use
or a new
purpose and at times this is exactly
what's needed we're talking about the
work of the church here now you know
there may come a time when you're asked
to take on additional
responsibilities you might have to take
on on more than you know one task or
more than one job wear more than one hat
you know there may also come a time when
you're no longer the best person for a
certain
job or you're better suited for another
role so I I I want to encourage you guys
to be
adaptable and I want you to remember the
words uh of Paul in Philippians 2:14 he
says do all things without complaining
and dis uting that you may become
blameless and harmless children of God
without fault in the midst of a crooked
and perverse generation among whom you
shine as lights in the world this is not
part of the lesson this is just a side
note is it not crazy
that if we just don't complain and we
just don't bicker and argue that we are
a
light just that simple little bit we're
a light I'm ad living here but that as I
read this uh that astonishes
me but that's a lesson guys um I know
it's simple it's probably one you'd hear
at like a uh I don't know like a sales
Workshop or you know something related
to your everyday work uh but I think
it's one that we need to hear uh
specifically or especially because we
have a huge project ahead of us we have
uh I think it's three more buildings
three more buildings going up and and
tied to this complex we have a big
vision and we have a big goal and it's
going to take a lot of
work but guess what if we are going to
carry out this Vision if we are going to
reach the goals that we have of
supporting the community the way that we
do takes What It
Takes we don't know everything that it's
going to take
but I really just wanted to start the
conversation with with the mindset that
hopefully we can approach the work
that's going to be coming
up whatever it
takes be available be accountable be
adaptable so my father-in-law uh Rex I
got in trouble for calling Deb yaa this
morning so my father-in-law Rex uh he
always ends his lesson with a story
right I got in trouble in Bible class
for calling Deb yeah yeah not at home
um and so I was trying to find a good
story that really fit the lesson that I
wanted to you know bring up and there's
tons of success stories of people doing
whatever it takes you know to reach
their goals uh I'm sure I could have
even gone out and find uh found success
stories about ministers or uh you know
missionaries who who overcame great odds
and they're still succeeding but as I
Was preparing this lesson my mind kept
going back to just one
person one person that knew what it
would
take and did it
anyways and that person is
Jesus I want to read Philippians chap 2
verses 5 through 7 it says have this
mind among yourselves which is yours in
Christ Jesus who though he was in the
form of God did not count equality with
God a thing to be grasped but emptied
himself by taking the form of a servant
being born in the likeness of men and
being found in human form he humbled
himself by becoming obedient to the
point of death even death on a
cross who who better to emulate than
Jesus you know Jesus made himself
Available To Us by coming to a corrupt
Earth in the flesh
Jesus as the perfect sacrifice became
accountable for our
sins and Jesus in the form of God being
adaptable emptied himself to a life of
service and obedience to the point that
it meant him dying on the cross
