just going to have a quick devvo before
we get into the question and answer but
I have a card here that I like to read
first with love and gratitude for the
gifts of your kindness and
thoughtfulness thank you all for the
beautiful cards you sent they were a
blessing and a comfort thank you also
for the phone calls and the texting it
was all good and kind love you all
Rosemary so she wanted that red and I
wanted to go ahead and get that done uh
we're doing just call your attention to
the fact that we all have questions uh I
think that's a natural thing but as
Christians our duty isn't so much to ask
questions our duty is to be willing to
answer questions and that's what that
passage that was just read focuses on
let your speech always be with Grace
so first thing there ought to be favor
in the way you answer it in other words
words that means whoever you're
responding to you should be gracious
show them favor tilt your hat their
Direction instead of getting on to them
for the question that's inappropriate
for Grace Grace
is oh let me even if it's a rude
question show them favor the second
thing it says is not only with Grace but
seasoned with salt
that you may know how you ought to
answer each one that suggests
flavor so we put salt on food to make it
taste better so we should lean into them
with favor but then it should have
flavor in it it ought to be interesting
but it should be good it should be
wholesome be something that would do you
good so when you're asked questions
these are your responses so remember
favor flavor then one more let me turn
over to the other passage that also
talks about this this is in 1 Peter
3:15 it also gives us a little guideline
says having a good conscience 1 Peter
3:15 uh excuse me I did 16 but sanctify
the Lord God in your hearts and always
be ready to give a defense to everyone
who ask you a reason for the hope that
is in you with meekness and fear so
people are going to ask you questions
why are you a Christian why do you do
this why do you do that and the one word
that comes through there is a Meek
fear
fearfulness these are serious matters
which we Al ought to treated as serious
it's not a joke none of these questions
are jokes that you've asked and we're
going to try to treat it both with
favor put a little flavor into it make
it
palatable and but we're going to answer
with fear
that's way you should be each and every
day that's way you ought to approach
your life with everybody you're
encountering you ought to treat
everybody with favor with
Grace and you ought to always try to
give a little flavor to your life all of
our speech should be seasoned with salt
don't you think all of it should be
palatable and then we ought to be
fearful because we're all going to
answer the Lord for what we do so we
need to be careful there might be
someone here that's been struck with
fear and there is a question for you why
terest thou why terest thou if you're
not right with God you could arise and
be baptized tonight you could literally
stand up and say I believe Jesus Christ
is risen Lord you could literally say
I'm going to make him Lord of my life
and you could literally be baptized it'
take us a few minutes to fill the the
thing behind me but uh we could make it
happen so if you need to respond you
should respond and so we ask you to
respond tonight are we going to have an
invitation song at this point Luke nope
no invitation song so if you need to
come forward you're just going to have
to come forward let's do
this anybody need to respond tonight
raise your
hand okay see that does the same thing
does ain't that funny we act like
invitation is in the Bible it's
not it's not in there so we're about to
have questions hold on to your
seats right good evening everyone can
you all hear me in the back there all
good all right good stuff thank you for
coming tonight I know we're doing
something a little bit different but uh
in an effort to
uh show more transparency but also to
show the confidence that that your
leadership team does have as well uh to
answer questions some of them are easier
than others some of them are quite
difficult but what we want to do tonight
is I do have some questions already
thank you that to those people who've uh
already handed those in I do have some
cards up here if anyone would like to
add to tonight uh just raise your hand
and I I'll bring a card around and a
pencil if we have time left over we
might even be able to just roam around
and see if there's any other questions
or any other comments to add to some of
the questions that we've had but we'll
see how that goes because we got quite a
few up here and uh we'll see how time
time permits I did have a few pictures
given to me so that's kind of cool thank
you to whoever drew the pictures that
was kind of cool is that core it was it
cool all right I'd like to invite the
eldership to to come sit up here thank
you
all right can you hear me
there all
right I'll kick it off with two
questions that kind of go hand in hand
uh has the has the Rapture or has there
already been a Rapture and would God
want to create another world after he
destroys the world so that's has there
already been a Rapture would God want to
create another world after he destroys
this world who would like to handle that
one do it re you yeah go for it I need
to go through
something well I've got an answer here
hang on a
second simple
answer all right basically the first
part of it was what say the first part
again as they were already being a
Rapture uh no so um the answer is no
there's not been another there hasn't
been a Rapture Hebrews chap 1 verse2
mentions that God when he made the world
he made the worlds so there's already
worlds out there he doesn't need to
create uh more worlds for that matter
has there been a Rapture and the answer
to that is honestly that U John chapter
5
John chapter 5 makes it very clear that
there is at least one resurrection and
when that happens it's the end of the
world and so really if the Rapture is
already come we're already
done uh there's uh the Lord sounds a
trumpet calls all by
name there's no need for trying to even
question that because we wouldn't be
here that's the simple answer to that
the Rapture has not come now there is a
term in the scriptures 1 Thessalonians
4:13 through1 18 is the closest thing to
the word rapture it just means to be
taken up we are going to be taken up
we'll meet the Lord in the air John 5:29
though is where it says that uh there's
a resurrection of uh the just and the
unjust so no you'd have seen people come
out of the Grave if the Lord had already
come and
so there isn't going to be something
like that everybody got that all right
anybody
else okay all right thank you the uh the
next question that's come up uh and this
has come up a couple times uh who is the
church's legal attorney and financial
advisor and do we have
one get your tomatoes
ready okay I want to turn this question
around uh
who does the church have as a financial
advisor um now if you're referring to a
regular run-of-the-mill financial
adviser we don't have any set
Investments that would call for a
financial
advisor now if you're referring to an
adviser to assist us in our monthly
Financial
operations honestly I believe we'd be
hard pressed to find a financial planner
or
advisor who could pull together what
this eldership and prior eldership have
done in creating an $8 million property
and walk away only owing $2.9
million I believe personally that this
question may refer more to our ability
or inability to manage
money our monthly operations here
presently are currently pretty simple
it's much like you have at home we have
intake and
output our intake obviously as
contribution just like yours is your
paycheck we pray every month that uh
there's enough input to equal or
better the output at the end of the
month now I'm going to go a little
deeper
here this eldership has let you
down wait a minute I'm an elder you know
this is pointing to me
too we didn't let you down in the
financial
area we let you down in the
communication area I think some of you
will lovingly agree with me about that
everything we've done here Financial I
fully feel in my heart we've done to the
best of our ability it's been done
correctly and there has been uh Beyond a
a good level of decision making in that
aspect we did a great job showing you
the building plans the mission the goals
the Outreach
potential you knew everything every step
of the
way except in the fact of letting you
all know what may be needed of you at
the end of the road
y'all came in this new building
blindsided and it wasn't your
fault and due to co kind of screwing
everything up we didn't even know where
we would land quite frankly at the end
of the game to even tell you what
contribution would be
needed or budget
required when we were finished until we
get the final bills in which are coming
here soon
again now on top of that many of you
were confused thinking we had far more
money in the bank that we did when
reality that money had already gone out
for construction that was already
completed nine week nine weeks or so ago
I gave you all a snippet of our
financial situation to which he
responded
graciously I had no less than 25 of you
probably more come up to me afterwards
and say we had no
idea I had no
idea that we were in the shape we were
in many thought we had tons of money in
the bank still based on the display that
was being shown on Sunday
mornings now I want to get into that
display okay that display that that you
see sometimes on Sunday morning that was
called deceptive that's a dirty word the
root word for deception is deceit there
was no deceit there it was just
confusing those numbers were correct and
those who put those numbers together did
so with good intention but they were
deep they were hard to understand the
elders are revamping that display here
soon again once we get this final number
back from Landscaping we're going to
revamp that display so that it
accurately shows in an easier form and
fashion what you all need to see on
Sunday
mornings um things should be a lot
better now the the giving has come up if
it stays where it is we'll be okay if it
if it starts approaching up toward the
20,000 a week
Mark building in the future would be no
problem at all
now back to the first part of this
question as far as legal advisors go
that's still up in the air pending
future dealings with the bank the county
and future
Builders and I can assure you during the
next phases that uh things will be done
a little differently in that aspect we
we probably should have had a financial
or a legal advisor during this first
round things that have been a lot easier
and uh I would have aged a lot less I
think
thanks
all right next question uh why is mental
health such an an avoided Topic in the
church I'm going to take that one it's a
counselor I may not cover everything but
I'll think what cover what I think are
the main things is number one there are
many people that are unwilling to admit
that they or their family members have a
mental health
issue call it shame disbelief denial
whatever it might
be I personally know of a family that
denied mental illness in the family and
it resulted in a self-inflicted gunshot
wound and
death I've heard some Christians say
that they assume mental illness doesn't
exist that it's just a failure of
someone
self-control for instance if they would
just be faithful Christians they
wouldn't have this problem
or they ought to be able to overcome it
by themselves I've heard this especially
about
depression well there are varying
degrees of depression there are varying
causes of depression there are varying
circumstances of
depression and even depression that's
maybe not on the mental health issue
scale but is definitely there yes it can
be helped by the individual doing so
certain things for instance if they are
in depression if they will make
themselves do one productive thing a
day and if they can do one productive
thing ask themselves can I do one more
productive thing but they may only be
able to do one productive thing that
will help but the depression will still
be there
true mental illness has to be treated by
someone who's professionally trained to
do so sometimes that requires
medication sometimes for a lifetime a
failure to take that required medication
can result in a de uh dangerous episodes
that you see sometimes these
shooters people that go berserk uh that
can sometimes even end up in the death
of themselves and or multiple other
people I am a Christian
counselor at one point I was going to
try to become a licensed mental health
counselor but there's a story behind
that not long after I was here I was
dealing with a woman who did not have
true mental health issues she had a
lying problem and she had an attention
problem well she I told her I I exposed
her and she went to a psychologist here
in town and he demanded notes which by
law I have to provide a summary of notes
of my treatment and I kept meticulous
notes the entire
time I not only provided him with a
summary I provided him with copies of
every session that I had with her he
called me a back all kinds of other
things but the main thing he told me was
you can't use the Bible in counseling
and at that point I decided not to
become a licensed mental health
counselor being a Christian counselor I
deal with problems of day-to-day living
and spiritual
questions those are things that I can
counsel about if I encounter someone
with a true mental health issue I will
refer them or try to get them to refer
themselves to an appropriate
Source thanks
TW Okay so we've got a question that
says uh I am a divorced man can I
remarry if so uh are there any
parameters I must follow and another
question on top of that is can we do
more family classes classes uh like
marriage uh let's see
I just uh let's
see so as far as uh being divorced man
well the first thing we've got to first
thing we've got to do is um be honest
with ourselves you've got to you've got
to be honest with your
situation um there's basically three um
scriptures in the Bible uh that deal
with divorce um and one in particular
Matthew 5 31 and
32 um deal with
remarriage um recently Rex um what was
it just this past quarter just this past
quarter uh spent an entire uh quarter on
us on Wednesday nights dealing with uh
this topic so uh this topic has been
early vetted and I get 3 minutes or so
but here's the thing um and this these
are Jesus's word If any man who divorces
his wife must give her a a written
notice of divorce but I tell you that if
any man who divorces his wife except for
the problem of sexual sexual sin which
is fornication is causing his wife to be
guilty of adultery and whoever marries a
divorced woman is guilty of adultery so
basically here's the thing if if you div
divorce your wife and you have caused
the divorce if you've been unfaithful to
your wife and you have caused the
divorce you have you have fornicated and
you have caused a divorce you have no
right to remarry she
does if you had divorced your wife
because she has been the guilty party
you are free to Remar she she is not
correct is that basically in a nutshell
that's basically in a n shell so whoever
the this gentleman is if you find
yourself guilty of cheating on your wife
you have no right to remarry if you find
yourself in a position where your wife
has cheated on you then you have the
right to Remar the situation is this
you've got to be honest with yourself
only you know and God knows the honest
real
situation and that's what you've got to
live with with now and that's what
you're going to wind up living with for
eternity so it's nothing to play with
the other thing was what I'll take it
okay can we have some marriage and
family classes if I have enough people
that want the class I have a marriage
seminar already prepared all I need is
to get a classroom and a time to to
teach it so if you're interested you let
me know
okay thank you have the elders given
consideration to possibly revamping the
building project to fit the needs of the
current budget and the congregation
perhaps instead of three buildings one
building with an auditorium classrooms
and Office
Space
um bottom line daddy always said
anything Worthy is worth fighting for
tooth and
nail uh the devil is on to us been on to
us since we tried to get this project
going he knows what it's going to amount
to he knows what it's going to create he
knows what it's going to do to this area
these these 28,000 cars a day or so that
go by in front of us I don't intend on
quitting anytime soon and uh as far as
the the revamping of the budget or or
because of the budget I would uh hope
and pray at this point that
the that the uh money God would create
the the the money to be
revamped toward this goal this vision
and I fully believe that will happen
sooner or later either in new members or
in us or in the widening of Lithia Pine
Crest Road like like I said I don't
intend on you know y want to throw me
out you can throw me out but I don't
intend on quitting anytime soon
so for those of you who've been around a
while you remember the old building and
we added on to that building and within
two years we were already running out of
space so think about
that this is an attempt to get ahead of
this look at the explosion of growth in
this area
a little minor thing would be all the
plans have already been approved drawn
up it would cost an enormous amount of
money to start that process
over now I've been an elder now for
almost 29 years I'm going to tell you
something that some of you probably
aren't going to
like I may well not ever see the
auditorium or the the sanctuary and the
education building and I don't
care I want to see it
done if you think this is new go back
and read
Ezra and
Nehemiah in Ezra it says that those that
opposed the construction in Jerusalem
hired counselors who their entire job
was to do nothing but hinder the
building so what we're going through is
the same thing that's been and Through
the
Ages don't give up on what we need to do
to have it right
now okay I'm got I've got a
confession few years ago I came to the
eldership and I pitched one single
building right I pitched a single
building because I was opposed to a
campus Style
setup guess what I have totally changed
my mind because I see the wisdom in this
type of setup you build in smaller
chunks budget gets hit in smaller
chunks this is a smaller chunk of the
budget hit one number
two this man right here during the
construction of this building laid all
the infrastructure for the remaining
buildings and that's one of the reasons
why this building is more expensive than
it should have been guess what the the
bank loves that the bank loves this guy
so that's number two
third our
vision for going into the
community or having the community come
into
us the the campus style buildings is
integral it is so important that we stay
on this course to have this building to
be able to invite people in to us to to
understand who we are so that we can
love them just like the event
yesterday the event yesterday is just
the beginning of who we are establishing
ourselves to be it yesterday was amazing
you weren't here last night you missed
an amazing amazing thing walking around
last night I didn't recognize most of
the people because most of the people
out there don't go to church
here that's
amazing and we had somebody here last
this morning that was here last night
that is the that is just a small impact
of what this church is going to be and I
know it because we love this community
we do we have always loved this
community and we're finally getting the
tools to do it we don't need to be
afraid of our budget we
don't every family in here works on a
budget if we just looked at our at our
mortgages and said oh we can't do
anything because I've got this huge
mortgage we just lay around being scared
we cannot be scared we've got to manage
our money we've got a budget correctly
and move on but we've got a budget and
we've got to stay within our budget
that's that's what we've got to do but
the ultimate vision of this congregation
we don't need to forget it we do not
need to forget it when this when this
Auditorium next door is is finally built
when it gets to what what is it 800 or
so is it 800
800 the vision of this congregation is
is to seed other
churches in different places like Apollo
Beach down in Riverview big bigger
bigger places so people aren't driving
so far to come to church that is the
ultimate vision of this of this church
not just here but do the same things
other places we are going to have a huge
impact and this is just the
beginning of that Vision it's it's just
the beginning do not be scared we need
to be bold and this is just the
beginning of being
bold right I have a question up here
that
uh you guys haven't seen yet so I guess
I better handle it but what is the great
white throne in Revelation
20:1 I just want to start off by was
saying when it comes to Revelation I'm
I'm always a bit cautious to dive in
there and and have these opinions
because I do I do kind of relate it back
to the the mountain
Transfiguration and uh when we see Peter
James and John go up onto the mountain
with Jesus and they see this amazing
thing happen and they come down the
mountain uh Peter James and John are
talking to Jesus and Jesus says don't
tell anyone about what you've seen and
till the son of man has risen again and
if I say to you what does that mean you
all know what that means the son of man
has risen again we know that but for
these three who walked and talked and
shared meals with Jesus their response
was what is he talking
about and so I think Revelation is kind
of our what is he talking about but when
it comes we'll be like wow okay we get
it now so I'm always a little bit
cautious in Revelation but I'll read it
to you um Revelation
20:1 then I saw a great white throne and
him who was Seated on it Earth and Sky
fled from his presence and there was no
place for them and I saw the dead Great
and Small standing Before the Throne and
books were opened another book was open
which is The Book of Life the dead were
judged according to what they had done
as recorded in the
books if I try and think of how John
probably perceived this or saw it I I I
feel like he knew what a throne looked
like and he's saying I saw a great white
Throne great and white showing holy and
Purity and just
majesty and so the the other place that
my brain goes here is I think it's a
literal
throne but also John
522 I'll read this to you John 5:22 it
says uh moreover the father judges no
one but has entrusted all judgment to
the the
son that all may honor the son just as
they honor the father so who was Seated
on the
throne my brain says it it must be Jesus
because it goes into judgment after that
so hope that answers the question all
right um next question we
had this came up a couple of
times when did speaking in tongues and
prophesying
cease yeah
that's in 1 Corinthians
14:22 and I have looked at for years
based on some of the
studies you know things like speaking in
tongues
uh you know prophesying as a
gift I think in order to to wrap our
minds around it we need to look and
consider the Holy Spirit first of all
what is his work what does he
do you know Jesus says I think it's in
John
15:26 and when the spirit has come he
will testify of me testify of me and
when we see how the Holy Spirit worked
even from
creation you see that as God plan and
the Word was the agent through whom it
was done it was the Holy Spirit
that made it happen in the beginning was
the word you know I mean in the
beginning God created the Heaven and the
Earth as the uh God spoke the spirit
move that which was not was so as the
spirit
moved God promised that he would send
his only begotten son but Mary was
conceived of the Holy Spirit when we see
that uh on the day of Pentecost it was
the Holy Spirit that caused the
confusion and
empowered the disciples to speak with
those
tongues and the Holy Spirit as they
spoke with those tongu sharing the
gospel the good news of Jesus he pricked
the hearts of many and they said what
must we do but tongues were not
something that was supposed to remain
always and the book
of let's see here Corinthians 13 and I'm
going to read this we we know this uh
what what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 13
I want you to bear with
me I'm going to read it from the
NLT because I think the NLT says this
better this is First
Corinthians chapter
13
here uh and I'm going to go down to
probably verse
number8 and start reading prophecy and
speaking in unknown languages and
special knowledge will become
useless but love will last
forever now our knowledge is partial he
says what do he mean when he says that
it was partial at that point in time
that Paul wrote
this the full Revelation from God had
not been made
known they were still uh learning as the
Holy Spirit was revealing to them what
God's will was and he says partial and
incomplete and even the gift of Prophecy
reveals only part of the whole
picture so they didn't know what God's
entire will was for them even even the
church but he says this but when the
time of perfection comes that word is
complete that word means complete they
were partial but that was a time that
they were looking forward to that the
complete revelation will be made
manifest to them
okay when
that Perfection comes then those partial
things will become use
Paul goes on to say when I was a child I
spoke and thought and reason as a child
but when I grew up I put away childish
things now what is he talking about
there when he's speaking of being a
child he's talking about the maturation
of the church the church was still being
formed it is not what then what it is
now the church government was even being
organized at that time but we have come
to that point now now you know the
gospel the full Cannon of the whole new
testament is revealed to us we know
God's will Keegan just mentioned
Revelations that's what the end is going
to be so it's all there
now no need for the
partial because we have the full Cannon
now we have the full New Testament
Church manifested and revealed to us now
so
no need for
tongues okay the New Testament is
translated in just about every language
Under the Sun there's no need now no
need for tongues prophecy and let me
share this with you as it relates to to
prophecy prophecy is basically meaning a
partial Revelation what they were
prophesying was what was
to come it was
a a a Godly manifestation or revealing
to them what was unknown at the
time prophets are no longer teachers now
because we go back and grab what's been
taught what what's been shared the full
gospel of Christ and teach that to his
people you know when Jesus uh uh
sent his disciples into the world he
made sure that they understood the
criticality of teaching and so what the
prophets have revealed that's what we do
now is teach that to his people there
are no need for prophets
this try to be quick basically uh
tongues you might wonder why did God use
tongues there are three reasons they're
Tong tongues were used first thing you
need to understand according to 1
Corinthians chap 14: 21 and 22 the
tongues were always assigned to
unbelievers not to Believers Never was
intended to be the primary thing used in
a worship assembly this just wasn't
supposed to be that way it could be used
there but it had three purposes the
number one purpose is a sign that the
gospel was going to unbelieving Jews and
unbelieving Gentiles of the world that's
the reason in Acts chapter 2 The Gospel
is presented that way to the whole world
that's come there that's the reason in
Acts chapter 10 it's used because it's
now going to the Gentiles so it's a sign
to the unbelievers of the world so that
the gospel is going to the whole world
not just to the Jews anymore the second
purpose of the tongue sign was so that
everybody would understand that the
gospel was presented by Apostles right
and that the apostles spoke tongues more
than anybody in fact that's what Paul
claims in 1 Corinthians 14:18 it was a
sign of apostil ship 2 Corinthians 12:12
but in 1 Corinthians 14:18 it was a sign
of apostleship that Paul had more than
any other because they were to take the
gospel of the whole world so it was a
sign to unbelievers that they really
were Apostles and that you should
believe sign to unbelievers who received
the gospel sign of unbelievers to
receive the apostles as authorities but
the real thing that you need to get is
it was a sign to unbelievers who would
reject the gospel because in that text
in 1 Corinthians 14: 21-22 two what he's
saying is the law said that whenever you
heard languages that you don't know or
that You' never heard before being
presented to you that was a bad thing it
was a sign of a curse that's based in
Deuteronomy 28: 49 when they would hear
these stammering tongues or from another
language that they didn't know that
meant that God's impending doom was
coming upon them another nation was
coming in upon them and so when they
heard tongues that's a sign you better
get your house in order Israel or you're
going to be destroyed what happened to
Israel they didn't get their house in
order they rejected Christ they
literally heard tongues and then the
nations came in upon them so it was a
sign of blessing to the unbelievers of
the world it was a sign of apostleship
listen to them and it was a sign to the
unbelievers that would reject the gospel
of Christ that impending doom was coming
so that's why it went away it had a
self- stuffing cause once that was done
didn't need it anymore
thank you all right so the next question
we had was do you think small groups
would benefit the church especially in
helping new members uh for a part if so
why do we not have
them small groups are a manifestation of
Acts chapter 2 actually where Christians
were meeting continuously they were
sharing Bible studies and pray prayers
and meals together establishing close
personal relationships with new
Christians is critical in helping them
to grow spiritually and having close
interpersonal
relationships we're to share one
another's burdens we're to encourage one
another and small groups are a great way
to implement that Debbie and I were part
of a small group for years we met on
Friday evenings or Saturday evenings uh
it accomplished the things that we asked
uh that we talked
about but let's look at some of the
things that we have to think about when
we were talking about implementing small
groups first of all we have to have
families willing to open their homes to
host them the groups have to be
relatively small let's say less than 15
people so that we can allow free
participation in the
discussion next we have to think about
child care for the participants parents
either have to hire a babysitter or
there has to be some sort of babysitting
U supervision available there there has
to be someone who take on the
responsibility of planning and leading a
Bible study if there's to be a meal and
or snacks someone has to plan for and
provide the food if groups grow there
has to be a workable plan to subdivide
the group into smaller groups that
everyone is willing to to cooperate with
and follow through
with finally each group has to come up
with a time and day that they're willing
to meet together now here's where we
might have a
disconnect as Elders we are concerned
with the whole
congregation and the unity of the
congregation small groups are very
difficult to oversee and ensure that no
false Doctrine is being
taught we're also aware that small
groups can Foster rebelliousness and or
controversy in the
congregation for that reason we have to
do our best to control that potentially
dangerous situation if you do not think
that happened it has happened in this
congregation in the past you may not
know about it but it has
happened so therefore we're going to
take some precautions about small
groups more importantly we're concerned
about the command forsake not the
Assembly of your the as the matter of
some is but exhorting one another and so
much the more as you see the day
approaching small groups should not take
the place of worship but rather should
be an addition to
worship if we want to establish these
close relationships it's worth the extra
effort to meet at another time and
prepare prepare them get them used to
coming into the worship service but we
need to meet together as a whole
group therefore we encourage any of you
to form small groups to meet together at
a time when it doesn't uh interfere with
the worship
Services all right so
I'll kind of join these two for time's
sake uh in the qualification of Elders 1
Timothy 34-5 states must be one who
manages his own household well keeping
his children under control with all
dignity but if a man does not know how
to manage his house his own household
how will he take care of the Church of
God and Titus 1 16 and 7 States If any
man is beyond reproach having children
who believe not accused of indecent
Behavior or Rebellion
some say that this reflects only while
the children are in the house and how
the children believe or act once they
leave it is of their own free will
however the real and trous test of how a
parent raised their child managed in the
home would be how the child operates
once they leave the home this would also
be evidence of whether the child is
truly a Believer and only coming to
church because there is no other
alternative as stated in Proverbs 226
train up a child in in the way he should
go even when he is old he will not
depart from it how do the elders
interpret these passages from First
Timothy and Titus and on top of that
I'll say uh a question here why was the
congregation not involved in the
selection of the new Elders the initial
selection
thanks okay I'll take I'll take this
um as far as household um household by
definition is a person or group of
people dwelling in um under a single
roof so we have talked about this um
this has come up um Dwight has a
daughter right now who is going through
a divorce doesn't attend church my
father um wrestled with this as an elder
my older brother still does not attend
church he's on his fourth
marriage um and we've had several other
Elders um I can't remember all the names
that you um there have been believe me
yeah there's been numerous Elders who
have had children uh leave the church
once they have left
home uh so our
interpretation of this is if you have
children living at home under your roof
who are uh going to church and are
faithful then you are ruling your
household well um if once they leave you
you have no control or responsibility
for the way that they maintain
themselves that's just outside your
realm and it's not fair to
expect you just can't you just can't you
know I'm fortunate um so far and I pray
every day that I remain fortunate um I
know lose in a great great spot with his
kids I know you're in a great spot and
you're in a great spot as well so
um but I know that this has been this
has been something that uh that several
of our elders have wrestled with in the
past including my own father um but
that's where we landed uh at this point
as far as um uh the church not being um
involved in the selection of the uh
current uh gentlemen uh you're involved
now um we put forth uh the couple names
that
survived the cut uh original we had
originally six gentlemen uh that we were
under
consideration um there's no real
scriptural pattern to follow uh whether
you seek out names from the congregation
or you um follow what we did um by
selecting gentlemen uh you know in
titus5 Titus is told to appoint Elders
you know that's it that's basically what
you get appoint
Elders um we did start with six
gentlemen um went to all of
them um and uh basically we told them to
keep everything confidential you know
one everything's a test and one of the
things that were uh important to us U
was to keep
confidentiality spoke about that a
couple weeks ago um uh in our
announcement uh I know that
uh that confidentiality has been
followed uh even the gentleman that
passed up the opportunity I'll call it
an opportunity to serve um have not
didn't even speak about the fact that we
were going through um uh selection of
Elders um and also in the past when um
the eldership has reached out to the
congregation
for um
selection Nomine
um they had Rex preach numerous sermons
about the qualifications of Elders and
what not and uh they got many many um
gentleman's names who did not
qualify um and uh this this ended up
from what I understand um talking to to
um Dwight uh it embarrassed some who did
not want certain information known about
themselves uh they wanted to stay uh
they wanted information about themselves
to be private held private that
information could not be held private uh
because of the
process uh and uh so we wanted to avoid
that uh we never want to embarrass
people so we went this route uh y'all
are free to ask the two gentlemen any
question uh we've put it out there and
uh as as long as it's a a Biblical
question they are your target for the
next
week and um and I hope you take full
advantage of it they're two good men we
we feel like we've done a great job and
vetting them so far and uh it's on you
to to fulfill that responsibility as
well thank
you did you want to say something oh no
no oh okay uh just wanted to speak just
for a moment just to the idea of your
believing children I think that needs to
actually be a lot of these things are
iffy it's like U how hospitable does a h
person have to be you know some things
are in the realm of opinion so some of
this is in the realm of opinion but let
me give you something to chew on just
for a second uh Timothy was written to
Timothy Titus was written to Titus
Timothy was not where Titus was and
Titus wasn't where Timothy was they
neither one would have had access to the
other for a little while they even knew
knew each other but they wouldn't had
access to it the message to Timothy is
this about children one who rules his
own household well having his children
in subjection with all reverence I
guarantee you a grown child does not
feel that way if he's married with a kid
he he is not under subjection to his
father if it is it's a a father that's a
tyrant that's not appropriate you're
married you got your own family you
don't control me anymore amen amen wall
okay now back now to beatus he doesn't
say that at all so it's children that he
has some control of sounds like in his
household doesn't it I mean really does
now what does Titus say Titus is
different though it says it this way for
uh after it says the bishop must be
blameless it gets down to here it says
uh having faithful children by the way
that doesn't necessarily mean that
they're faithful to the Lord that's up
to you to decide that you decide that it
doesn't say it one way or the other all
right it it can mean just believing
children but again it's interpreted here
faithful children believing children
your version Old King James said
believing children right this one says
now new king Jam says faithful children
both are correct either one of those
could be a way it's interpreted having
faithful children not accused of
dissipation or
insubordination insubordinate to
who
right who are they being dissipated to
who are they behaving that way to so is
it talking about children at home
children away you have to decide it's
your call you get to decide and if you
don't like somebody you got the right to
say something against it we're all
guessing at it just like you are
guessing at it best we can what do you
think all right thank you oh we got one
more question and we'll have to finish
up so the question was uh what is
blasphemy of the Holy Spirit brother
Luke
all right blasphemy let me break that
down for a minute uh comes from and I
look this up couple of Greek words uh
bapto which means to injure and fem
which means speech so basically what
it's saying is to
attribute evil or say evil of the holy
spirit of God okay you remember Jesus
was doing works and they were accusing
him of doing those works by BS of now
let me let me say this as relates to
blasphemy against the Holy Spirit why is
it a a a sin that cannot be forgiven and
that is because the holy spirit is God
the holy spirit is God the holy spirit
is not it it's not a thing the holy
spirit is God Almighty he's Yahweh
that's who the holy spirit is in
Leviticus
24:16 and let me see if I have my Bible
here I'll pull that up Leviticus 24
and6 uh you'll see that but God makes
this and you see he
is very um I I hate to say particular
but he is about his name and how it will
be used and it is due the
reverence that each and of us should
should give he says this in 24 and6
let me get it for you
here moreover he says the one who
blasphemes the name of the Lord must be
put to death the Lord there in that
word what's used at the tetragramaton
which is Yahweh the tetragramaton is how
they uh would write his name without
saying it but he would be put to death
the holy spirit is the if you blaspheme
against the Holy Spirit it is a sin that
leads to death it is not going to be
forgiven because the holy spirit is God
God is a Triune being he is a tri being
he's father he is word and he is Spirit
the Bible clearly teaches us that and to
blaspheme against the holy spirit is
actually blaspheming God we are triy
beings created in His image we're uh
Body Soul Spirit okay triot
beings created in the image of a Triune
God that's who we are and to blaspheme
the name of the holy spirit is uh
unforgivable and that is to denigrate
him to say evil of him to attribute an
evil work to the holy spirit is a
sin uh before God
Almighty oh yeah one other thing that I
want to say I I like this format I know
that there are other uh questions that
we are not able to address but on my way
here I was thinking something
tonight you know I would say and
encourage you to keep your questions
coming to Keegan you know we can't give
sufficient time to all of these
questions tonight as a matter of fact
questions that we addressed we probably
didn't give sufficient time to they are
indeed Bible studies in and of
themselves continue to give your
questions to Keegan we're going to
collect those we're going to do a class
on those we may call it uh you
know questions or or I don't know what
we'll call it maybe golden nuggets from
scriptures or what I have no idea at
this juncture but I think that that
would be something that we could put
together uh to address the question
questions that you may have and uh we'll
announce that in a future session and
we'll look forward to you participating
in that
thanks thanks brother Luke um thank you
everybody uh I hope this has been
productive and a little bit I know it's
been a bit different but thank you thank
you gentlemen for uh answering these
questions if like brother L says if
there's any other questions you might
have please come see me uh or you can
leave some questions in the Box we'll
leave it out there but uh hopefully this
has been something uh productive for us
