now when Eve asked Adam
uh Adam what was your favorite day now
in her mind she's thinking sixth day you
know because Adam was made and then his
Rib was taken and then she was made so
he thought for sure that's what he'd say
and Adam kind of surprised her of of
course not of course my favorite day is
Christmas Eve so
uh it was it was Christmas dreams of
assurance which made Joseph truly
believe it was some interesting things
that happened and and I got to be honest
with you I'm not sure if I'd have been
moved like he was but I think it's
wonderful if you are here or you're
listening online and and you're not like
us and you don't yet truly believe or
you're struggling to believe so I want
to ask you what would it take for you to
believe what it would take for you to
have Assurance of your faith so if
you're here and you're still struggling
in your faith what would it take it's a
great blessing according to the
scriptures John
2029 uh obviously it's a great blessing
to see and then believe like Joseph did
in our text he saw something and he
believed Thomas saw something and he
believed but but it's an even greater
blessing to not see and yet
believe here's some things that maybe
you struggle to believe in to believe
that God spoke the world and all the
animals all creation all the birds the
fish man he spoke it into existence
that's what we believe to believe that
God flooded the entire world killed all
that was alive on the land that we
believe that you believe in a worldwide
what yes
absolutely 100% I don't believe in one
of those little localized I believe it's
just like he said it a whole
world uh to believe that God separated
all the languages at the Tower of Babel
everything that we know now the three ma
major language groups came out of that
we're pretty certain of that history
actually verifies that and then to
believe that God saved the world from a
worldwide famine in the days of Joseph
and to believe that God saved Israel
from Egyptian slavery through Moses to
believe that God saved Israel through
David in his defeating Goliath and the
Philistines to believe that a fish could
be prepared and could amount to
swallowing Jonah and keep him alive
three days somehow and in come out we
believe that to believe that God saved
three believers who were cast into a
fire and came out without even the smell
of smoke on them to believe that God
saved various uh Believers from Lions to
believe that God is capable of dividing
Seas like the Red Sea of Healing The
Sick like he did through Jesus and the
apostles or to raise the dead as Jesus
was raised those are the things we
really believe it's not something that
we hope is true it's what we believe
believe is true and we are certain of it
so we believe those things without
question if you're listening or you're
here what would it take to get you to
believe those things so if you're
struggling with that what would it take
to get you to believe it clearly at the
beginning of hearing Mary's
story I'm pregnant but I'm a
virgin she must have been the one
probably to tell him unless it was a
relative that heard something and told
him Joseph did not
believe it's clear he didn't believe uh
Matthew 1:18 through2 I'll just read 18
and 19 now the birth of Jesus Christ was
as follows after his mother Mary was
betrothed to Joseph before they came
together she was found with child of the
Holy Spirit then Joseph her husband
being a just man and not wanting to make
her a public example was minded to put
her away secretly why would he have put
her her away if he believed it he
wouldn't have but it says he was a just
man or a righteous man those are
basically the same thing it's people who
do the right thing in the right
situation I mean that's just what uh
just people do they treat you justly and
Joseph being a just man was promised to
Mary likely according to the scriptures
that we read it was likely when he was a
youth this is probably a family
Arrangement they had been promised to
each other all along they' seen each
other from time to time but they are
only now about time for them to actually
be fully married and they were already
betroth now at this point so it's more
than just an early promise there's been
a betrothal and that usually happened
about a year before the wedding and
Joseph being a just man could have put
him put her to death we often say but
because he was a just man he couldn't
have why is that there were no witnesses
there was no man known you had to have
two or three normally to put someone to
to death just because she was pregnant
in and of itself did not make her a
candidate for being executed why Joseph
would have been one of the candidates
believed to be
responsible so it wouldn't have been
easy to make that happen and so it would
have been easier to believe that Joseph
and her committed fornication before
they got married Joseph being a just man
though didn't even want to hurt her he
didn't want to embarrass her and there
are several options he had that he did
not take he didn't require What's called
the bride price because of this he could
have required money back that he had
invested already he could have had her
scourged that he could have gotten done
he didn't want to do that he could have
made her drink the Waters of the curse
he didn't choose any of those kind of
paths he chose what he could do quietly
now you may think well a quiet divorce
is that right well according to Jewish
law and according to our law when you
get married you only have to have like
two people there besides you that's it
the guy who performs the wedding and one
other person normally is about it to
meet any relative rules and so four
people easily often two or three and
it's done if you go to the courthouse
right you can just get the guy who does
it and then you fill out the paperwork
that's basically it and so it can be a
very private thing and so too divorces
in our culture are very private
generally at least unless they go to the
court and then it becomes a very public
thing so he could have gone through that
and that was his plan to just do some
quiet work with the
rabbi so my goal is get you to be like
him a just man or a just woman uh
willing to do the right
thing even if it virtually takes a
miracle or something totally impossible
to get you to do it uh since Romans
10:17 says that faith comes by hearing
and hearing by the word of God we're
going to search the word here in just a
few minutes looking at this to help
maybe build some conviction especially
if you're out there in the The Nether
world of the internet and you don't
believe hope you start believing oh look
at three changes in Joseph as he began
to believe that's what we want to look
at number
one Joseph dreamed and received
Assurance for marrying Mary it says
again I'll read some of this again
beginning verse 20 but while he thought
about these things behold an angel of
the Lord appeared to him in a dream he
said oh well if I saw an angel in a
dream are you sure a Dream Angel would
get your attention and saw an angel of
the Lord appear to him in a dream saying
Joseph son of David do not be afraid to
take to you Mary your wife so he's
basically ordering him to to do that for
that which is conceived in her is of the
Holy Spirit and she will bring forth a
sign that's an important little thing
thrown out and you shall call his name
Jesus another thing to throw out or he
will save his people from their sins and
by the way way the whole culture was
kind of looking for a messiah at that
time verse 22 so all this was done that
it might be fulfilled which was spoken
by the Lord through the prophet saying
behold the Virgin shall be with child
and bear a son and they shall call his
name Emanuel that's Isaiah 7:14 that's
the prophet Isaiah which is translated
God With Us that is Emanuel means god
with us then Joseph being aroused from
sleep did as the angel of the Lord
commanded him so he didn't take it as
advice he took it as a command commanded
him and took to him his wife so she
belonged to him already because they
were betroth you actually have to
divorce if you're betroth even before
you've had the final wedding Feast verse
25 and did not know her did not know her
till she had brought forth her firstborn
son and he called his name Jesus it
sayso not be afraid to take to you Mary
your wife so Joseph as a just man
believed and he believed because he
believed in the Paranormal of
God did you get that because that's
true he believed in the Paranormal
possibilities of
God otherwise he would have written that
off he' eaten the wrong thing that night
he believed in the Paranormal
possibilities of God in Genesis
31:11 Jacob had seen an angel in a dream
it was a part of their history but to
see an angel in your dream how does God
do that by the way I mean I could see
how God would get an angel into my
presence into my bedroom and I'm awake
how does he get one into my dream you
ever thought about that how's he put an
angel in your
dream I don't know how you do it Joseph
so it's paranormal kind of thing Joseph
as a just man believed because not not
only he believed in the Paranormal of
God he believed in the promises of God
like Isaiah 7:14 we already mentioned
but Isaiah 9:6 which we read every
morning to us a child is born to us a
son is given he believed that there was
a promise of a coming son and now he's
heard this about this son and Joseph as
a just man believ because he believed
not only in the Paranormal not only in
the promises of God but he believed in
the prophets
of God and so Isaiah 7:14 was apparently
well known Jeremiah 31:22 there was a
virgin there was a woman that was
supposed to have an unusual
birth and that was talked about so he
dreamed and received and believed his
Assurance for marrying Mary that was
pregnant that he did not
do that took a little bit of Faith
number next Joseph believed and received
Assurance for a righteous restraint for
righteous restraint look at verses 24
and 25 once again then Joseph being
aroused from sleep did as the angel Lord
commanded him and took to him his wife
and did not know her now he she is his
wife he could touch her right he could
done about what he wanted to I mean he
could have touched her but he did not
know her till she had brought forth her
firstborn son and he called his name
Jesus before they came together she was
found with child Joseph as a just man
believed he was a moral
man he was not a
fornicator he was not a fornicator and
he kept Mary a virgin in his betrothal
already that was already the case of
this man and he kept her a virgin even
after the wedding
Feast no consummation of the wedding
till
birth so there was no fornication even
though John 842 indicates that that was
the tongue wagging of the people around
them we're not children of
fornication obviously the implication is
that there was a rumor that Jesus was
born through fornication but not Joseph
Joseph wasn't that kind of
man he was more moral than often we are
Joseph as a just man believed and kept
Mary a virgin till she was cleansed
after Jesus naming so now Jesus is born
he didn't rush in he did exactly what
the law required you don't touch her
even after the baby's born right see we
a lot of this stuff we don't our world
doesn't think about any of this kind of
stuff they just rush right in we're like
animals but he would not touch her
until the baby was named because that's
the law and Joseph is a just man
believed and kept Mary a virgin till
after she brought forth her firstborn
son significance why mention firstborn a
lot of people think that has to do with
authority and all that kind of thing it
does but but more than that it has to do
with this simple thing uh it wasn't her
only
son and it wasn't his only son but
rather they had other children and I've
given you scripture on that so the point
is is that he was a man of righteous
Assurance because he was a man of
righteous
restraint and so unless you could learn
some personal discipline and I'm talking
to people maybe on the internet now
unless you can learn some personal
discipline you may never want to
believe and that may be standing in your
way you just don't want to say you
believe because if you said you believe
then you need to apply some righteous
restraint on your
behavior so he dreamed and received and
believed his Assurance for righteous
restraint he believed enough to do just
that number
three Joseph dreamed and received
Assurance for identifying
imanuel it says in verses 24 and 25 once
again then Joseph being aroused from
sleep did as the angel of the Lord
commanded him and took to him his wife
and did not know her till she had
brought forth her firstborn son and
here's the significant statement and he
not they not she he
called his name Jesus why is that
significant the significance folks is
you it says you shall call his name
Jesus for he will save his people that's
what the angel had told him but it means
more than that you see he did the work
of a righteous
father he actually took about three
steps here that indicates that he made
this
boy his son
without
question you see he he named him Jesus
at his
circumcision he took on the deed of a
father that's what a father did that's
when the child was named you remember
that when Elizabeth and Zacharias you
remember that he actually had to make it
clear it was the man that named the
child not the woman the man named the
child and making him rightfully savior
because he called him Jesus which means
the Lord is salvation or Yeshua the Lord
is salvation and he named him that so he
identifies who he is for the whole world
because it was his job as a father and
then he did something else when it was
time to do this he paid for it was him
that paid for the sacrifice you see
there had to be a sacrifice made for a
firstborn because everyone that opened
the womb was the Lord's belonged to the
Lord clearly the Old Testament teaching
on that so the firstborn belonged to the
lord and there had to be a special
sacrifice made to identify this
firstborn is
mine and he identified with Jesus making
him scripturally not just figuratively
but scripturally his firstborn son but
more than that Joseph as a just man
believed and became a father in every
way to the son of Mary making him
legally the son of David the Messiah the
Christ he was legally there was no
question so you you wonder how could
Jesus be king he's King because he is
the son of Joseph he's not King because
he's the son of
Mary he's King because he was the son of
Joseph that's right
he was David's line that's how it
happened it didn't flow through the
woman it only flowed through the man and
so he identifies with him and makes it
clear so he received and believed he had
Assurance enough to identify the
Emmanuel and he believed now I think
that took a great deal of faith I just I
think Joseph was a better man than we
kind of give him credit for we we tend
to focus probably on Mary because W what
she did was amazing but
believing that he had enough assurance
that he would marry Mary after Mary
tells him well it was an
angel
okay and then he has a
dream oh something about that dream
folks but it was enough for marrying
Mary problem is is we probably don't
even believe in the Paranormal of God
today we almost don't believe in the
Providence of God we almost don't
believe that God answers prayers these
days that's almost where people are you
don't really believe God answers you
don't really believe that God would do
this or God would show you the way to go
oh absolutely I do and I believe he has
and I believe he will amen but you know
there's people out there listening to be
that and that's weird Rex no it's not
God works with us and the Assurance of
righteous restraint in a world we live
in right now that will have sex with
anybody anytime day or night just
about and knows no
restraint no wonder they can't
believe if you're struggling and you
haven't obtained morality that may be
holding you back you have to learn some
self-restraint that's what believing
requires but then also believing his
Assurance for identifying the Emanuel
and saying this is my
son he is a child of
David it took a little bit of Faith
didn't it because now what he's really
doing is he's gone further he believes
he's the
Christ he doesn't just believe that this
child is the ho he believes this is the
one this is God on
Earth you have a child and you say I
know we all look at our children like
you know it's like go looking in the
face of God I'm not talking about that
I'm talking about really believing that
so do we believe as Joseph as a just man
would believe or do we only believe when
we see
I I'm asking everybody do you have to
see it to believe it is that where we
are now are we are we back where Thomas
was we we have to see it can we not just
think about it and think about believing
think about believing before you have to
see an angel do you have to see an angel
to believe their
Angels do you do you have to think about
I think we should think about belie
beling and believe because this has
survived over 2,000 years of significant
abuse it's the greatest document on the
planet and then there are people that
will wag their tongue at it and have
never picked it up and read it and yet
they'll read anything else out there but
won't read that that's crazy it's
absolutely insane believe anything a
scientist says who's been our Al 20 30
40 50 60 years and won't believe a book
that's over 2,000 years
old that's crazy I mean that's
absolutely
insane we need to learn to believe
because billions have believed this not
millions billions have believed this the
majority of people who believe anything
on the planet right now believe this is
true and yet there are people stand up
nobody believes that anymore that's not
true so I'm also asking you to believe
us because we believe it and we stand
here and we've read it
amen and we believe it I believe every
word of it I can't explain everything I
can't explain how everything was done I
no no no no you you got me confused with
somebody that's smart I don't know that
stuff but I believe it and I'm assured
it's true so let us be part of your
evidence because we believe and we're
convicted maybe you could think about
believing Steve green back in 1910 I I
I've been a a fan of Steve Green for
over 40 years y'all didn't even know who
he is probably but I've loved his music
for a long long long time and and some
of it's got me through some really
really hard times this uh going on to
Africa it amazing to me because I was a
big fan and right before I went he he
came out with a whole album called the
mission it was just what I
needed I think God does that give you
just what you need when you need it well
maybe maybe this is for those you are
struggling to
believe some of his words maybe it's
just what you
need when you need it we believe in the
father who created all that is and we
believe
the universe and all therein is his as a
loving heavenly father he yearned to
save us all to lift us from the
fall We
believe We Believe In Jesus the father's
only
son existing
uncreated before time had begun a
sacrifice for sin he died and rose again
to Ransom sinful Men We
believe We Believe in the
spirit who makes Believers one our
hearts are filled with his presence the
comforter has come the kingdom unfolds
in his plans unhindered by quarrels of
man the church is upheld by his hand we
believe and though the Earth be removed
and time be no more these truths are
secure God's word shall endure whatever
may change these things are sure we
believe so if the mountain are cast down
into the plains when kingdoms all
crumble this one remains our faith is
not subject to seasons of men with our
fathers we Proclaim we believe our Lord
will come as he said the land and the
Sea will give up their dead and his
children will reign with him as their
head We Believe amen We Believe say it
with me we
believe
what is it that stops people from
believing I'll tell you a story you know
we went to Africa
and we didn't you know your mission you
don't make much money and uh we we
really struggled but uh so all of our
friends over there that had a little bit
of money they they went to these animal
Parks these reserves where the Lions and
all that
is we were there for 5 and A2 years
years and never went cuz just didn't
have the money to go and thought it
sounded dumb actually I did I'm sorry I
just thought you're going to drive
around and look for an animal and that's
it sounded boring I'm sorry did I'm I I
I just thought that's what a waste of
time especially because nobody had air
conditioning in their car so it's hot
and I'm drive going to drive around out
and and I'm going to take my kids with
me we're going to roll windows down and
there's l out there this doesn't nothing
about this sounded smart or
fun but we finally gave in was well
we're leaving you know we're less than a
year to go we we let's go we'll break
the budget and go so we went so we went
to this place and so we got instruction
didn't see anything and didn't see
anything two days we're like we're only
there I think three or four days and
first day didn't see anything drove
around saw nothing I'm like boy this was
a good investment didn't see anything
didn't hear anything and see anything
and so we talked to some of the people
and says oh well you have to develop the
eyes I said
what you don't see anything at first you
have to develop the eyes to see
it so I said well how do you do that he
says well look for other people that
have pulled over in their cars and
wherever they stop stop and look until
you see and once you see it you can't
unsee it
okay sounded dumb but okay we're driving
along and there's like five or six cars
pull over okay and you know Bethany's a
little kid you know she's like three and
they're all in the back seat we all got
a crown back there Heath and be Bethany
and Emily and deban I we pull over roll
our window down we don't get out see
nothing what are they pulled over here
for finally one of the kids says oh I
see it I see it I see it what do you see
Knuckles none of us seen it yet there's
a big lizard laying on that rock over
there so so like and I'm thinking to
myself five cars have pulled over to see
a lizard is that how bad this is and I
have wasted so much money and sure
enough there was a lizard big lizard
about that long colorful laying on a
rock and I thought okie dokie we've
really made a good investment there and
I said y'all not see anything else
because they look like they're looking
at something no don't see anything and
then one of the kids said that Boulder
just
moved and a boulder that was from here
to the end of that table moved it was a
rhinocerous what you don't recognize is
the animals look like
Boulders they don't they look like the
grass and finally you start seeing
them these people had to show us
how to
see what we could not
see so maybe similarly those who cannot
see the truth of the Gospel need those
of us who
believe to learn from to learn to
believe that they too can
see maybe that's the problem they
haven't seen us pulled
over they haven't seen us seeing and
believing
maybe we need to show
them how we see and how we believe oh I
wish those of you who are listening who
don't believe could
see and could
believe how would your Christmas holiday
be different if suddenly you went from
not believing because I was there I
didn't believe that's where I was as a
kid I thought all these folks that go to
church were crazy I literally believe
that I did not
believe I wish I could show you the
path that I had to walk to believe but a
lot of it I realize now was just what
we're talking about I saw other people
who
believed and I saw how they did it and
those of you who are older you may not
realize how important your walk is some
people will say they'll get old and say
I don't really have a person purpose
anymore oh yes you
do we need to see your
faith I get through the next day often
because of your
faith so let's show the world how to
believe and let's not be afraid to
believe like Joseph even when it seems
paranormal and ridiculous you really
believed an angel came to you in a dream
do you really believe a virgin could
have a child do you really believe that
God would send his
son a Divine son to the Earth do you
really believe those things oh yes and
much much more amen if you're here
tonight and you would like to believe
but you've just never made that step see
it's really a choice all you got to do
is decide I
believe that's how I do it I believe I
believe that Jesus Christ is the Risen
Lord and Savior yes I believe and you
confess that and you determine to change
your heart and we'll baptize you tonight
for the remission of your sins if you
were willing come Why Don't We Stand why
don't we sing
