so tonight I'm going to be preaching on
what would Jesus do a lot of people
especially back in the '90s had these
bracelets the WW JD bracelets I've worn
one for a few years I used to have them
um back in the day so I was thinking
what am I going to be preaching about
what would be a good topic and I was
looking down and I was like you know I
wear this wwjd bracelet but I almost
forget that I have it on my wrist
sometimes I look down and I go you know
I'm
I'm wearing it as a reminder but it's
just kind of become a part of my arm um
maybe I should think more heavily on
this example and then I had a
conversation a couple weeks ago with
someone here and they said you know what
would Jesus do is a bigger question than
just a simple statement that we wear on
our arm so I wanted to look into the
background of where these bracelets came
from in 1896 to in Topeka Kansas
minister Charles Sheldon wrote a book
entitled in his steps what would Jesus
do the ethos of Sheldon's approach to
the Christian Life was expressed in the
phrase what would Jesus do with Jesus
being a moral example rather than a
savior figure 100 years later in Holland
Michigan a lady named Janie
Tinkleberry Rings were becoming popular
tinberg p wondered the question might
she be able to create a Remer to
Christians that would act as a prompt to
advise them to lead the good life and
what she did was she made these
friendship bracelets for her children
who were youth group age at that time
and her children started to go to youth
group wearing these wwjd bracelets and
then their friends started to say hey
those bracelets are pretty cool I'd like
to have one of those so then she started
making more and more and more and then
over time the whole youth group had them
and they were doing them as giveaways um
for exceptional service and stuff like
that and then they became more and more
popular outside of there as the youth
group was going to school stuff like
that and now to this day there are an
estimated 50 million wwjd bracelets sold
from the time that she created them in
or 1989 till now she purposely did not
patent the bracelets or wwjd and she did
not make a dime off of the Logan the
bracelets or anything like that so it
has been her example and creation of
these things that has reached a ton of
people and it's it's still doing that
today so tonight reflecting on what
would Jesus do I came up with three
different things that I think that we
can emulate in Jesus's life starting
with let me flip this real
quick stting starting with Jesus would
take
responsibility we need to protect our
church in Faith Like Jesus did Jesus
would take responsibility for those in
the community Matthew 22: 37-39 says and
he said to him you shall love the Lord
your God with all your heart with all
your soul with all your mind this is the
greatest and First Command on a second
it is like this you shall love your
neighbor as yourself we grew up with
this we've heard this since we were
children but really we need to take this
into a effect in our lives Jesus didn't
just stay inside the churches when he
was here Jesus didn't just hang out with
Christians he went out he went out into
the community and he was a servant to
non-believers we have a ton of
outreaches here that we could be a part
of between benevolence we have operation
honor there's lots of ways that we can
get involved in our community and serve
those around us to help out those that
are in need around us we also need to
take care of our other church members
helping people when they're in the
lowest times and being a available to
people when they are in low spots in
their life acts 6 1-4 says in those days
when the number of disciples was
increasing the helenistic Jews among
them complained against the Hebrew Jews
because their widows were being
overlooked in the daily distribution of
food so the TW gathered all the
disciples together and said it would be
not right for us to neglect the ministry
of the word of God in order to wait on
tables brothers and sisters choose seven
men from among you who are known to be
full of the spirit spirit and in wisdom
we will turn this responsibility over to
them and we'll give our attention to a
prayer and a Ministry of the word we are
responsible for not just us and the
community but for each other we're
supposed to be there for those who are
in need in our own group if we have and
like this example widows people who
might not have family here people who
might need something simple done around
the house it is our responsibility to
care for those people to take care of
those people and to be there for those
people a lot of people outside of the
church uh I've come across don't have
that sense of community that we do um
when things go bad in their life when
they have things Crash and Burn they
might not have family here they might be
satellite from somewhere else or moved
here they're on their own they don't
have what we have here and that's the
ability to go to each other that's the
ability to to lean on one another to to
use each other and we need to be
available to each other so that we can
be used and so that we can serve one
another because really that's going to
build this church to be a stronger nit
Community we're also responsible for
teaching equipping God's people and
building up his church Ephesians 4:
11-13 says now these are the gifts that
Christ gave to the church the apostles
the prophet the evangelists the pastors
and teachers their responsibility is to
equip God's people to do his work and
build up the church the body of Christ
this will continue until we all come to
such unity in our faith and knowledge of
God's son that we will be mature in the
Lord measuring up to the full and
complete standard of Christ we cannot
become stagnant we have to continually
be growing not just individually but as
a church it's not the elders
responsibility solely it's not the
deacons responsibility solely it's not
the teachers responsibility solely it is
our responsibility as individuals to be
continually growing and then sharing
that with each other so that this church
can become a better church we can go out
there and minister to other people
spiritually and that we can be a hub of
of knowledge and wisdom for each
other also Jesus flipped tables to
protect his church is our responsibility
to take action when the church is being
attacked Matthew 122-117 says Jesus
entered the temple courts and drove out
all who were buying and selling there he
overturn the tables of the money
changers and the benches of those
selling droves it is written he said my
house will be called a House of Prayer
but you are making it a den of robbers
the Blind and the lame came to him at
the temple and healed them when the
chief priests and the teachers of the
law saw the wonderful things he did and
the children shouting in the temple
courts hosan to the son of David they
were indigen do you hear what these
children are saying they asked him yes
replied Jesus have you never read from
the lips of children and infants you
Lord have called forth your praise and
he left them and went out to the city to
Bethany where he spent the night where
there's good things happening the
devil's going to be there and he's going
to be hitting us hard and I think that
we've seen that in the last few years
going through Co trying to build a
building we've got new Elders in place
we're doing a lot of good here and I
think the devil's taking notice and I
think he is doing his very best to get
in to us to try to wreck what we've got
going on and I think that we need to be
cognitive enough and brave enough to
recognize that and to be able to be
brave enough to fight that head on if
we're seeing things happening we need to
attack those issues we need to make sure
that we are correcting those issues
because that's our responsibility as
people in this church because God did it
for his church Jesus did it we need to
do it as well from my next point we
talking about Jesus would work Jesus was
working his entire life he was
completely devoted to working for his
church gen Genesis 2:15 says the Lord
God took the man and put him in the
Garden of Eden to work it and keep it if
you're not working you're not fulfilling
your Christian
Duty I just took over assembly
management so I might be getting on my
soap box here I know Jeff will probably
appreciate this guys your kids need to
see you up here leading if you you need
to be an example like we spoke this
morning if you want this church to
continue to grow and you want young
people to be involved you got to set
that example and it's it's not just up
here
leading we need people to teach Bible
classes we had a Ministry Fair recently
and all these walls in here and
everything out there had a table with
someone who had a Ministry there is no
shortness of work that needs to be done
around here and it's our responsibility
to do that we only have a few people on
staff but we've got about 300 and
something members probably pushing 400
now nothing's going to get done if no
one's willing to get up and work and
it's our responsibility to do that if
there is a Ministry that you see that
you isn't being fulfilled that you think
would be a good Ministry and you think
you could head on let's go let's get it
done if there's a Ministry you want to
get involved in but you feel kind of I
don't know go to somebody ask if you got
a Ministry and you need help go to
somebody ask we all got to get to work
because that's what's going to this
that's what's going to grow this church
and and that's what is going to to get
us to be better and live more like Jesus
every day
I also want to to hit on the part of
Jesus's Perfection and how that showed
how hard he worked I think that we
sometimes
discount Jesus being perfect because he
was partially God but he was also just
as much
human and I don't know about you guys
but I'm tempted all the time and Jesus
in his worst times every single day of
his life being the perfect person on on
this Earth was Jesus or was the devil's
number one Target and he was perfect and
he was able to fight off the devil every
single day he was able to never make the
wrong step not say the wrong thing he
was perfect and there's no shortness of
work that goes into Perfection if it was
easy and it didn't cause any work then
we'd all be perfect but Jesus did that
every single
day and for my third Point Jesus would
love the way that Jesus is love is
undeserving and
unfathomable Jesus commands us to love
one another John 13
34-35 a new command I give you love one
another as I have loved you so you must
love one another by this by this
everyone will know that you are my
disciples and if you love one
another Jesus taking away all of our
sins in a I'll give an example so you're
driving on the road and you see a
homeless man maybe he's it's not because
of his choices maybe it's because he is
but you've done everything right in life
and you got this house and you got a car
and you see him and you go you know what
here here's my keys here's your new
address we're switching spots I'll take
it you're changing that man's life in a
way that doesn't make any sense and
Jesus did that on an even bigger scale
for us he took every single sin that we
ever committed and he put it on his back
even though he put all of this time and
effort into being perfect because he
loved us so much it really like I I
can't imagine someone loving me that
much like there's there's no reason for
him to care and love that much for
us one thing that I came across uh
during this study that really hit me was
the way that uh Jesus loved his
enemies Matthew 26:1 17-25 said on the
first day of the Festival of unleavened
bread the disciples came and asked Jesus
where do you want us to take make
preparations for the Passover he replied
go to the city to a certain man and tell
him the teacher says my appointed time
is near I'm going to celebrate the
Passover with my disciples at your house
so the disciples did as Jesus had
directed them and prepared the Passover
when the evening came Jesus was
reclining at the table with the 12 and
while they were eating he said truly I
tell you one of you will betray me they
were very sad and began to say to him
one after the other surely you don't
mean me Lord Jesus replied the one who
has dipped his hand in the bowl with me
will betray me the son of man will go
just as it is written about me but woe
to the man who betrays the son of man it
would be better for him to have not been
born then Judas the one who would betray
him said surely you don't mean me Rabbi
Jesus answered you have said so one
thing I we've seen this passage over and
over but one thing that I never really
realized until digging into this no
nobody knew it was Judas because Jesus
didn't treat Judas any differently than
he did at anyone else at that table I
don't know how you guys deal with your
enemies but they're usually not somebody
you're sharing a meal with and they're
usually if you're around them there
might be a little tension or something
there somebody might be able to tell you
know what's going on with Jesus and
Judas or they weren't sitting around the
table and they weren't going you know
he's talking about Judas right like you
know this like it's obvious they no one
knew they had no idea who it was and I
think that's a great example that for
the way that we should treat our enemies
that we're treating them just as good as
we treat our friends we're eating with
them just as much at the same table
treating them with the same honor and
respect as those that we decide to to
love and fellowship
with and Jesus would also love by
humbling himself John 13 1-7 says it was
just before the Passover Festival Jesus
knew that the hour had come for him to
leave this world and go to the father
having loved his own who were in the
world he loved them to the end the
evening meal was in progress and the
devil had already prompted Judas the son
of Simon es scariot to betray Jesus
Jesus knew the father had put all these
things under his power and that he had
come from God and was returning to God
so he got up from the meal took out his
otter clothing and wrapped a towel
around his waist after that he poured
water into a basin and began to wash his
disciples feet drying them with the
towel that was wrapped around him he
came to Simon Peter and said to him Lord
you are going to wash my feet Jesus
replied you do not realize what I'm
doing but later you will understand no
said Peter you shall never wash my feet
Jesus answered unless I wash you you
have no part with me then Lord Simon
Peter replied not just my feet but my
hands and my head as well Jesus answered
those who have had a bath only need to
wash their feet their whole body is
clean and you are clean though not every
one of you for he knew he was going to
betray him and that was why he said not
everyone was clean when he had finished
washing his their feet he put on his
clothes and returned to this place do
you understand what I have done for you
he asked them you call me teacher and
Lord and rightly so for that is what I
am now that I your lord and teacher have
washed your feet you also should wash
one another's feet I set for you an
example that you should do as I have
done for you very truly I tell you no
servant is greater than his master nor
is a messenger greater than the one who
sent him now that you know these things
you will be blessed if you do them we
can't think too highly of ourselves
especially going back to the Ministries
and stuff like that if you got somebody
working for you in Ministry treat them
well treat them better than you would
even want to be treated yourself make
sure that they are feeling supported
make sure that they're feeling loved and
go out of their way if we become too
prideful and think too highly of
ourselves we're going to be done for so
it's very very important for us to
understand that we need to to love each
other enough to Humble ourselves and
wash each other's feet so that's really
the lesson pretty simple stuff but uh to
close out I want to tell um a story I
work in um Healthcare so I I also work
in critical care so organ donation is
something that I see quite a bit and I
had a a patient a few weeks ago that
kind of hit me a little bit he was
around my age
um but he ended up going for organ
donation because of that man eight
people now live that's that's a heroic
act that is the act of a hero and I'm
sure that those people that receive
those organs are extremely grateful and
will always remember that person
who gave their life to to then live like
a normal person but Jesus did that for
us a long time ago on a scale that's
even
bigger I I don't deserve for my sins to
be covered I don't deserve Jesus's love
but I'm going to live for him every day
because I know what Jesus did he took
responsibility for my sins he worked
every single day of his life for me for
you so that we have a hope to just get
to be with him one day and he gets to be
with us and that's a kind of love that I
don't understand but I hope to one day
maybe be able to comprehend so if that's
something that that you think you want
to be a part of I would encourage you to
be a part of it I would encourage you to
want to ask yourself every single day
what would Jesus do because if you do
your life's going to be so much better
so if you have been thinking about
baptism we can do that tonight the
water's probably going to be cold but
that's okay but if you want to you can
do that as you as we stand and
sing
