now non-binary it's an interesting term
I I thought I'd choose that because the
word literally means not composed of
just two things and it kind of fits uh
the unic in more ways than we we don't
tend to think that way because we have
been as a church and because we are very
conservative in our thinking we tend to
think well if you use the term
non-binary you're giving over into the
culture but very much so it fits this
situation because it it's anyone who
does not conform to traditional binary
beliefs or actions and so it indicates
individuals that are not exclusively
male or female in the normal sense and
if you're not aware a unic is a person
who's been fixed is not capable having
children and uh that can be radical or
partial but it's still the same thing as
a country boy uh what are non-binary
redneck pronouns and I I was raised with
them it's y'all and all y'all
so it's all I knew but I want to talk a
little bit about Unix because they're
they don't get much publicity and I
think you need to understand that they
play a bigger role in the scriptures
than you might be aware and uh they have
an important role now there's some
things have been arguments that been
made about Unix that I want to kind of
demystify but I want to bring you into
an understanding of how important some
of the the theology is underneath this
this um some prophecies in the lot but I
want to begin with unics are uh
therefore by definition literally
nonbinary now I don't have a way of
changing these things but Matthew chap
19: 10-12 says this his disciples said
to him if such he's talking about
divorce in that text if s if such is the
case of a man with his wife it is better
not to marry that is if it's so strict
as he was making it verse 11 but he said
to them all can not accept this saying
but only those to whom it has been given
verse 12 says for there are unic who
were born thus from their mother's womb
and there are unics who were made unic
by men and there are unics who have made
themselves unics for the kingdom of
Heaven's Sake he who is able to accept
it let him accept it so that means
there's three categories of Unix are
these non-binary individuals at that
time there Unix who were born non-binary
so that may fly in the face of what
you've thought that no such people exist
but that those people do exist nonbinary
in the sense of physical reasons
physical defects and body parts having
problems or even those who were either
extra masculine or extra feminite and
then there are Unix and that's by birth
and then there's Unix made non-binary by
other indiv on other individuals usually
as a result of War uh crushing or uh
mutilation of someone else but it's
usually for sexual reasons that may
sound strange but it's so that uh say
women could be watched after and
protected from other men and at the same
time be safe from The Men Who were
watching after them and that happened
quite a lot and so it was Queen cacey
right Queen cacey and so around Queen
cacey it would be safer if her uh
Treasurer was a unic so now you begin to
understand what's happening in the text
Unix also chose to be non-binary or Unix
as well and that happened we don't know
exactly what is being discussed when it
says that we don't know if that was
something they did in the sense of
literally physically altering themselves
we simply don't know but we know that
they did it for Spiritual reasons it's
clear in the text it's for the kingdom
of heaven say Unix also and these what
you might call a non-binary because
they're so different from the rest of us
we just don't talk about it very much
were all through the Old Testament let
me just give you a list of those uh
there you go there's a list of them Unix
were not allowed to serve as priests but
it was discussed Unix were able to
destroy Jezebel the enemy played a key
role in that story Unix were advisers
and caretakers of royalty all through uh
the Book of Esther uh Unix were Fighters
and capable of staging a coup we know
that that's also in ex Esther chapter 2
Mori uncovers that story and as a result
Mori is rewarded later Unix were not to
say they were cut off from God for God
had a special remembrance of them and a
blessing for faithful Unix you want to
take a look at that that's in Isaiah 56
veres 3 to 5 but one who was a unic
might think that he's left out but that
was in the case as far as God thought
Unix took care of and taught Daniel
Daniel chapter 1 and several of the
verses there and then of course there is
that famous Ethiopian unic of the New
Testament there but there is a
counterpart there's a famous Ethiopian
unic of the Old Testament it's a great
study in the book of Jeremiah and the
well in Jeremiah chapter 38 invite you
to read that and enjoy that study so
Unix not only uh were all through the
Old Testament but they actually play a
critical role in some of the things
thinking as to what God was doing with
Israel now there's been some mistakes
made on the interpretation of some of
the stuff I'm going to say right now so
I'm going to try to correct that a
little bit but bottom line This was done
by ruthless dictators if you will to
people that they wanted to be able to
control and so one of the places that
this would happen would be when Israel
was conquered or taken control of by
another Nation it was not uncommon at
all in history at that timeline to make
men particularly Unix so that they could
serve in a way and yet at the same time
not be a threat to the rest of the
kingdom and that is the case in 2 Kings
20: 16-18 it says Isaiah said to
Hezekiah so this is a prophecy Isaiah
said to Hezekiah who was the king hear
the word of the Lord behold the days are
coming so they weren't during hezekiah's
life the days are coming when all that
is in your house that is your descend
and what your fathers have accumulated
until this day shall be carried to
Babylon nothing shall be left says the
Lord Verse 18 of that chapter it's still
2 Kings chapter 20 and they shall take
away some of your sons who will will
descend from you whom you will beget and
they shall be unics in the Palace of the
king of Babylon so that's indicating
that the line of the Kings was going to
be cut literally and jeani is one of
those particular prophecies that have
been used and I I was taught this I was
taught this wrong but I need to uh clear
it up so jeoni or koni would be made a
unic uh or non-binary individual of male
who could not have children uh Jeremiah
chapter 22 if you want to read that in
detail I'm going to read it to you but
you're welcome to turn with me Jeremiah
22: 24-30 as I live said says the Lord
though koni that's another name for jok
jeon or jeho Kim all those are common
names for him anyway uh as I live says
the Lord though Ki the son of jeim King
of Judah were the signant on my right
hand that's right hand yet in other
words showing the sign that he was a
king I would uh pluck you off even if
that was the case I would still pluck
you off verse 25 uh that's because he's
going to take them way into Babylonian
captivity and I will give you into the
hand of those who will seek your life
and the Hand of those who face your fear
the hand of Nebuchadnezzar King of
Babylon and the Hand of the calans verse
26 for I will cast you out and your
mother who bore you into another country
where you were not born and there you
shall die verse 27 but in the land to
which they desire to return they shall
not return won't every those people that
those descendants will not be allowed to
come back here verse 28 is this man uh
this is this man Ki a despised broken
idle a vessel in which is no pleasure
why are they cast out he and his
descendants and cast into a land which
they do not know oh Earth Earth Earth
hear the word of the Lord and there's
the prophecy that's particularly uh
affected by this making him a unic verse
30 thus says the Lord write this man
down is childless a man who shall not
prosper in his days for none of his
descendants shall prosper sitting on the
throne of David and ruling anymore in
Judah now that passage has been used to
try to teach that Jesus could never
Reign on the throne of David in
Jerusalem and therefore uh
premillennialism could not be true
that's a different discussion I'm not
going there but this passage doesn't
teach that and I'll show you how we know
that to be true and that's an
overstatement of what's said here so
what's really being discussed is this
particular man would be written
childless he would not be able to have
children the reason he wouldn't be is
because he would be made a unit and most
of the king Royal of the family would be
made Unix uh it was predicted that
they'd be Unix in the Palace of the king
of Babylon in Esther 2 and verse 6 Kish
has been carried away I'm reading it now
from Jerusalem with the captives who
have been captured with jaah king of
Judah whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of
Babylon has carried away so we know that
happened it was also predicted to be a
unic in the Palace of the king of
Babylon by Jeremiah 24:1 when it says
after Nebuchadnezzar King of Babylon had
carried away captive jeconiah the son of
Jehan king of Judah and the princes of
Judah with the Craftsman and the Smiths
from Jerusalem and had brought them to
Babylon so jeconiah was carried away
captive into Babylon he was 18 at the
time and so he didn't have any children
yet and then he was made a unic and
that's critical I think I think they
even blinded his eyes uh but he sat at
the king's Royal table in in Babylon uh
who's predicted to be Unix in the Palace
of the king of Babylon also by Jeremiah
27:21 it says when Nebuchadnezzar King
of Babylon did not take when he carried
away captive jeanah the son of jeam King
of Judah from Jerusalem to Babylon and
all the Nobles of Juda and Jerusalem
that's critical because it's going to
affect another thing that I actually
taught here one time and some of the
ladies didn't like it but so I I want
you to listen carefully why why I went
there and that is that Daniel was likely
a unic and that is he predicted to be
Unix in the Palace of the king of
Babylon Jeremiah 29:2 this happened
after Janiah the king the Queen's mother
the Unix the princes of Judah and
Jerusalem the Craftsmen and the Smiths
had departed from Jerusalem so they were
all taken so not only the family Royal
but even their Unix were taken
and then they were made Unix so
obviously not the ones that were already
Unix but and Daniel chapter 1 which
indicates that group of people who were
the descendants Daniel being of the seed
Royal in Daniel chap 1: 3-6 it says this
because this is the group that's
actually taken and this would have been
done to it says then the king instructed
aspaz the master of the Unix to bring
some of the children of Israel and some
of the king's descendants so that's who
D Daniel was so was Shadrach mesek adido
or Hanah Mel and Azariah and it says and
and some of the uh some of the king's
descendants and some of the Nobles so it
was a a group of the upper echelon if
you will young men in whom there was no
blemish but good-looking gifted in all
wisdom possessing knowledge and quick to
understand who had the ability to serve
in the king's Palace and whom they might
teach the language and liter literature
of the calans verse six says uh now from
among those of the sons of Judah were
Daniel Han and I Melle as right so with
jeck and I here this this is the
problematic thing though because Jesus
is apparently a descendant of jeconiah
that becomes a problem are you following
me now the reason this is actually
important is because he's actually
appears to be a descendant well how can
he be a descendant if je andah didn't
have any children right that's kind of
important little thought well if jeah or
Ki was made a young unit uh that this
non-binary individual that can't have
children he was predicted to be
childless what happened so jeoni or Ki
or jeaken being only 18 and now he's
made a unic and likely blind in the into
Babylon what happened well Matthew 1: 11
and 12 number in the New Testament
Josiah begat jaah and his brothers about
the time they were carried away to
Babylon this fulfills what we just said
and after they were brought to Babylon
jeah begat
sealo well how'd that
happen Okay 1 Chronicles 3: 17 and 18 it
says and the son of jeanah were Asher
sealtiel his son how did that happen
good question right well what they did
and what we do two different things
there's a thing called the leverite law
which is derived from the Latin lever
and it means a husband's
brother in Deuteronomy 25 now I'm going
back so you understand exactly how this
happened Deuteronomy 25: 5 and 6 says if
Brothers dwell together and one of them
dies and has no son the Widow of the
dead man shall be married to a not shall
not be married to a stranger outside the
family her husband's brother shall go
into her take her as his wife and
perform the duty of a husband's brother
to her verse 6 and it shall be that the
firstborn son which she Bears will
succeed to the name of his dead brother
that his name may not be blotted out of
Israel so when this was performed the
child was named the father's name are
you following me now so Brothers do this
the name would be
jeanah but jeah would not be the direct
father because that was the prophecy no
children would ever come that way so je
jeoni begat Cel but it seems that they
begat the beginning was through the
leverite marriage and that's the reason
we have the Luke statement now you
beginning to understand why we have the
Matthew and then you have the Luke it's
a critical concept it may not seem
important but it's really important to
understand this Luke 3 and: 27 it says
the son of uh joannis the son of Risha
the son of zerubabel the son of shaltiel
the son of Neri what we discover right
there is that ner is the actual father
of
sealtiel because the uh the Lite law so
legally here's the point couple of L
thoughts you need to understand how
Jesus has the right to be the king
wherever he wants to be the king legally
Jesus was the son of David as the Foster
son of Joseph so this is legal so
legally had every right to be king
Matthew chap 1 verse one Jesus Christ
the son of David so he's a descendant of
David that's all he had to be to be a
king potentially Matthew CH 1 verse2
Joseph the son of David so that's his
father so legally he is the son of David
however Jesus was not of the seed of
jeconiah directly but he is of the seed
of David just the same through his
mother Mary through Risha ner and Nathan
so uh just as we've seen it rather than
through through Solomon and jeconiah he
still a direct descendant of David and
therefore this prophecy about jeanah has
no bearing upon him directly so Enochs
the nonbinaries or whoever got God cares
about them and he didn't cast them out
he said in Isaiah again that you are a
part of my blessing so but people did
not see them that way not everybody sees
people who are something wrong with them
they don't see them that way so I want
to give you five messages that are in
our text so you see that actually this
whole idea of being a unic and being
different from everybody else is a part
a huge part of the biblical story want
to look at five minutes messages though
that Phil up the outsider conversion and
how he reached out to Outsiders and
these what you might call non-binaries
because they're certainly not like the
rest of us number one where we
at beyond
that all right so look for the point
where I don't have the control Outsiders
was called to leave a Revival to reach a
nonbinary if you can find that in Acts
8: 26 6 through 28 here's what's
interesting of what actually happens in
the text and how much God wanted to
reach this unic okay that a lot of
people would not have anything to do
with he couldn't actually go into the
Holy Temple even if he was Jewish he
couldn't go all the way in because he
was a unic so he's treated differently
all of his life but he went all the way
to Jerusalem to do it in Acts 8: 26 it
says now an angel of the Lord spoke to
Philip saying arise and go toward the
South now wait a second he'd been having
a Revival in Samaria he's having a good
result in Samaria baptizing people and
the Lord says stop what you doing arise
and go toward the South along the road
which goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza
this is Desert uh so he arose and went
and behold a man of Ethiopia a unic of
great Authority Under cacey the queen of
the eth Ethiopians who had charged o of
all her treasury so he's the big cheese
in this and had come to Jerusalem to
worship was returning and sitting in his
Chariot he was reading Isaiah the
Prophet the big point is that uh to
reach this man this Outsider known as
Phillip was called to leave a Revival to
reach a non-binary if you will so number
two this Outsider known as Phillip was
called to overtake a chariot to reach a
nonbinder he says in verse 29 then the
spirit said to Philip go near and
overtake the Chariot we that sounds a
lot like what uh Elijah did when he took
off running and literally outran The
Chariot so he that's pretty good thing
to actually be able to hook up with a
chariot in the middle of nowhere and
then catch him number
three is the outsider this Phillip uh
that was uh of a helenistic background
was still a Believer still a disciple
and one of the seven uh deacons was
called to explain a passage to reach
this
nonbinary did he matter apparently he
did to God in Acts 8 beginning of verse
30 it says so Philip ran to him and
heard him reading the prophet Isaiah so
he didn't start reading just because
Philip was there and said do you
understand what you're reading and he
said how can I unless someone guides me
so it's important to have it explained
at times we all need that from time to
time and he asked Philip to come up and
sit with him and the place in the
scriptures which he read was this he was
led as a sheep to the slaughter and as a
lamb before the sheer is silent so he
opened not his mouth in his humiliation
his Justice was taken away this if
you're wanting to know where this is at
this latter part of Isaiah 53 and who
will declare his generation for his life
is taken from the earth in verse 34 so
the unic answered Philip and said I ask
you of whom does the prophet say this of
himself or of some other man and that
had been the speculation for a long time
by those Jews before Jesus had come well
he must be talking about himself cu
often the prophets would talk about
themselves or he must be talking about
somebody else who what man is he talking
about and they had no idea of course you
know and we know who he's talking about
verse 35 then Phillip opened his mouth
and began at that scripture and preached
Jesus to him this Outsider called
Phillip was sent to explain a passage to
reach a unic a non-binary someone
different than everybody else that was
almost looked down upon by most people
number
four this Outsider known as Phillip was
called to baptize a Believer to reach
this
non-binary unic different individual
Acts chapter 8 beginning verse 36 now as
they went down the road they came to
some water and the unic said see here is
water what hinders me from being
baptized now ain't that interesting
you've been talking to him about Jesus
from the prophet Isaiah and somehow he
came came to the conclusion need need be
baptized where' that come from it's not
in Isaiah where did he get it right
right you know I know but still it's a
good question asked verse 37 then Philip
said if you believe with all your heart
you may and he answered and said I
believe that Jesus Christ as the Son of
God so he commanded the charot to stand
still and both Philip and the unic went
down in the water and he baptized him so
we know that it involves two people
getting totally wet to be able to
accomplish this so those those are
important external or extraneous matters
that we we all believe but the point I
want you to get is this man who was
different he wasn't like everybody else
he didn't live the life as you and I
know it they were not married he didn't
have a family he wasn't like everybody
else yet God cared about him and now
he's a baptized believer because God
sent this man over now the last point
that I want you to see is
next there you go is that this Outsider
we know as Phillip was not through so
even though we're coming to the end of
the chapter I want you to see that he
was not through engaging himself and
reaching out to people that had
previously not really been reached out
to okay it's a really important part and
that is he was called to preach a path
and then you'll see the path in just a
moment if you had noticed it already to
reach all these Outsiders along the
coast that were really being ignored for
the most part because that's not where
any of the Apostles or anybody was going
in Acts 8: 39-40 it says now when they
came up out of the water which is
critical again to indicate that there
was a full immersion the spirit of the
Lord called philli away so that the unic
saw him no more that's it the
relationship is gone and he went on his
way rejoicing now What's significant is
that there was a Coptic Church in that
area for Generations 300 years so
somebody got down to Egypt in that area
with some teaching about Jesus that we
don't know anything about okay and he
went on his way rejoicing verse 40 but
Phillip was founded a
zotus and that's a Sea Coast Town not
far from where he was and passing
through he preached in all the cities
till he came to cesaria and there were a
bunch of them bunch of little Villages
bunch of little cities all the way up
the coast it's between 70 and 80 miles
up the coast to cesaria Philippi which
is where his family was we know that
because later in Acts chap 21: 89 that's
where his four daughters who prophesied
virgin daughters remember this that
prophesied that's where they were that's
where he lived so his home is cesaria
and he's going to cesaria but on the way
home he's preaching at all these
different places with people that had
not really been part because they're so
far out of it's almost like it is today
you know along the coast guys along
there they're really not considered
really the in folks if you will to this
very day so this is an important little
truth I mean I I think this is critical
theology here it may not seem it to you
but all that we've looked at is critical
theology because it affects so many
other things and that is this Phillip
this Outsider has been reaching after to
the Samaritans been reaching out to a a
a a magician and now reaching out to
this unic who was really kind of on the
outside Loop because he comes all the
way to Jerusalem and he can't even go
into the holy place he can't even go
into the court has to stay out with the
Gentiles so because he was a unic The
Outsider was
called U to go and reach this particular
man so he's a asked to leave a Revival
to overtake a chariot in the middle of
nowhere to explain a passage that led to
him understanding about Jesus which led
him to want to be baptized as a Believer
which he did and then it led him to
continue a path of preaching that went
all the way back to his hometown and
that's pretty much the end of the story
with Philip that we know we know that
Philip's daughters continue to be
prophets apparently prophetesses now
sometimes and to me that here's some
messages that I think are
important sometimes you have to see
yourself as an outsider to care about
Outsiders if you see yourself as The
Insider you're probably not going to do
this and sometimes you have to see
yourself as a
unic to car it all about non-binary
people that are different cuz there're
different people out there folks I'm not
trying to condone things that are done
that are wrong I'm trying to get you to
see people for their soul matters amen
amen walls uh sometimes you have to see
yourself
alone and
lonely to care about a
divorce you know do you
care if in school maybe you didn't have
this experience maybe you were such an
athlete this never happened to you but
some of us weren't the great athletes
that some of you are so maybe during
physical education or during choosing
upsides in a game you weren't chosen or
you were chosen
last and maybe for a moment you felt the
root of what it feels like to be an
outsider wanting
in it's not very comfortable is it to be
on the outside wanting
in so maybe we could just
care a little bit here enough to share
Jesus his gospel with anybody amen with
anybody well well will will they respond
properly that ain't up for you that's
not up to me will you share it will you
care Dr
Seuss you ever seen this
book the snitches let me tell you about
the snitches cuz it's a very little
known book but it's a book out there not
a lot of people have it the stitches are
tall yellow creatures who live on
beaches in susa's story these creatures
are divided into two groups those who
have green stars on their bellies and
those who don't have green stars do you
have green star on your belly okay the
green star snitches comprise the In
Crowd uh they build exclusive
campfires around which they sing their
little songs the snitches without green
stars on their bellies are Outsiders
they are the losers but one day quote
unquote a fix it up chappie named
Sylvester MCM monkey McBean comes to
town with a strange Contraption called a
staron
machine and for $3 just $3 snitches can
line up and get green stars put on their
bellies naturally all the non-star
snitches jump to this chance then crowd
snitches are no longer distinct this
upsets them very much but Sylvester MCM
McBean also has a star off
machine for a $10 you can get your star
which defines you as an
iners removed thus distinguishing you a
new so this back and forth escalates and
escalates and escalates Star on Star off
Star on Star off until as Dr Seuss says
quote neither the plane nor the star
bellies knew whether this one or that
one or that one was this one or which
one was what one or what one was
who this little Parable reveals a
profound
truth about the agony of being
excluded and the thrill or the
snobbery of being included CS Lewis
wrote about this CS ludus wrote an
article about inclusion and exclusion it
was called the inner ring it's just a
short little article I'll read it to you
you discover gradually in almost
indefinable ways that it is the inner
ring of inclusion and exclusion exists
and that you are outside it and then
later perhaps you are inside it it is
not easy even at a given moment to say
who is inside and who is outside some
people are obviously in and some are
obviously out but there are always
several on the borderline people think
they are in after they have in fact been
pushed out of it or before they have
been allowed in this provides great
Amusement for those who are really
inside it has no fixed name from outside
if you have despair of getting into it
you call it that gang or they or so and
so and his set or the the cus or the
inner ring I believe that in all of our
lives at certain periods and many of our
lives at all periods between incy and
extreme old age one of the most dominant
elements is the drive to be inside the
local ring and the terror of being left
outside of
it you see what I'm saying this whole
chapter is
about as Christ invites all the
outsiders
inside if you would you could be one who
would hear the gospel believe it repent
of your sins confess Christ be baptized
and be the only Insider thing I
know the problem is not Christ the
problem problem is will we as the
workers invite what we perceive The
Outsiders to be to become
insiders there's the
question you know it's so easy to just
leave them out isn't
it that's the easy thing to do I don't
like
them I'll just leave them out
there I don't know if you want to mess
with that
you don't know where that'll go you
don't know how people at church will
react you don't know what people will
think oh they'll think that you believe
it's all
okay who cares what they
think do the right
thing reach out to everybody in this
world they all need Jesus and that is
what that little Outsider name Phillip
really teaches us all doesn't
he reach out to The Outsiders around you
if you're not an Insider tonight it bids
you to come you can be an Insider
whatever that would mean to you but
bottom line it mean that you're right
with God won't you come while we stand
and while we
sing
