sadly some who claim to follow Jesus uh
have never eaten with his
Brethren don't you just think about that
just a
second there are people who claim to
follow Jesus who've never had a meal
with their
Brethren not even in their home not at
the building not somewhere
else never eat with them there are
members of the church
that never stay for a fellowship
meal ain't that
interesting are we having these flock
meals now I understand circumstances
situ but
never never there are churches that have
never eaten a fellowship meal
together isn't that strange I understand
if you got an issue about the building
or something that happens but you should
be able to find a place and meet
together right there are even some this
is really strange that claim to be
followers of
Christ that have never had communion
with the
bre ain't that a strange thing never had
a communion service never been in a
communion
service so I looked at how much uh we
spent and U so just think about it a
second in the future this is our
fellowship
hall this is it right here look at what
we spent on a fellowship call do we
believe in eating together or
what the Old Testament is filled with
meals there really are a lot of
discussion about meals and how meals are
connected to Covenant even meals and
their great meanings are all over the
place in the Old Testament so next time
you're reading pay attention to that I
was a bit shocked when I began to pay
attention Abraham for example in Genesis
18 and verses 1-8 says then the Lord
appeared to him by the terabit the tree
of mammory and as he was sitting in the
tent Door In the Heat of the day so he
lifted his eyes looked behold three men
were standing by him and when he saw
them he ran from the tent door to meet
them and bowed himself to the ground and
said my Lord if I have now found favor
in your sight do not pass on by your
servant please let the little water be
brought and wash your feet and rest
yourself under the tree and I will bring
a morsel of bread that you may refresh
your hearts after that you may pass by
in as much as you have come to your
servant they said do as you have said so
Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah
and said quickly Make Ready three
measures of fine meal knad it and make
cakes that's enough for about 300 people
to have a biscuit that's a lot and
Abraham ran to the herd took a Tinder
and good calf which by the way is a lot
of food and gave it to a young man and
he hastened to prepare it not some of it
but it and so he took butter and milk
and the calf which he had prepared and
set it before them and he stood by them
under the tree as they ate Fellowship
meal obviously there's more food there
so probably for everybody that worked
for Abraham fancy meal for these three
and yet it was also for the people that
work for him likely David Psalm 23:5 in
the psalm that we all know mentioned
this concept of even eating together you
prepare a table before me in the
presence of my enemy and you anoint my
head with oil and my cup runs over meals
all over the place in fact there are 10
that the Jews observe there's the Feast
of pum the Feast of the Passover the
Feast of unleavened bread the Feast of
first fruits Feast of Pentecost the
Feast of the Sabbath uh which by the way
you all these the Sabbath one you
obviously have to prepare it the day
before it's a whole different way of
eating than we observe here uh seven
it's uh the Feast of trumpets eight it's
the Feast of the day of atonement the
Feast of uh Tabernacles and the Feast of
lights or Hanukkah he Keegan and I have
been talking about this it's something
that I've wanted to do
forever so I I've just never been able
to pull it off I've mentioned it to
Elders before but uh it's kind of
different and so something I would
really like to do I'd really like to do
it next year I don't know if we'd be
able to do it uh I don't know finances
situation alls I would love for us to
get a flavor of what it's like to be
Jewish Our Heritage to the point that we
could have like a a feast that parallels
each of these at least have a pance of
an observance of understanding what they
ate what it's like and be able sit down
to that wouldn't that be interesting to
you I thought it would be too and uh I
think it would be something that you
would remember forever and if we had all
10 of them in a year that would be kind
of a good memory thing right and it give
you some history behind it I don't know
if we pull that off but I think it would
be a cool thing if we were able to do it
meals would Jesus means though
Fellowship obviously right that's the
idea so eating together is like being in
a covenant of Peace together in fact you
know that even from some of the meals in
the scriptures like Abraham walking
between the parts of the animals that he
cut into uh it's like a covenant uh
eating together is also for one of
another way of saying it it's life it's
life and it's lifegiving we have to
eat it is essential that we eat and
eating together makes that kind of a
neat thing we are surviving together and
eating together is family and it's love
CU who eats together more but family so
when a church eats together it's like
saying we're family and eating together
is comforting and it gives room for open
dialogue and I I think that we need that
I think you're you you are more relaxed
and more able to actually have a
conversation with somebody when you're
eating than when you're just talking to
someone in the hall or on your way or
even when you sit beside them in the Pew
or chairs this case may be and so
literally I think it's comforting
because we feel better well usually
after we get through eating together and
eating together is how relationships are
truly established I mean there's no such
thing at least in modern times of a man
and woman getting together in marriage
without having an eaten a meal together
you know what I mean that's kind of
dating thing that's the thing you do it
eating together is how we deepen our
relationships and all of our connections
people who don't eat together aren't all
that connected I guarantee that the
majority of the people that are here
tonight go to our fellowship meals but
Sunday morning I don't know if I could
make think that argument is firmly but I
do know that the Sunday night crowd is
eating together is how we enjoy life
together with our fellow man and with
God because we give thanks to God for
every time we eat Fellowship meals
represent Church
light it's not to be taken lightly we're
having these Shepherds flocks you need
to take advantage of them they're not
being offered lightly there is a real
connection and real love that happens
when we sit right next to each other and
eat food together Acts 2 verse 46 from
the very beginning of the church it says
continuing daily with one Accord in the
temple and breaking bread from house to
house they ate their food with gladness
and simplicity of heart so it's always
been a part of the church I know some
would think oh that's not that important
in the church in 80 48 Galatians 2 was
written or at least this is when this
event is believed to happen in Galatians
Chapter 2 it says when Peter had come to
Antioch verse 12 before certain men came
from James he would eat with the
Gentiles but when they came he withdrew
and separated himself fearing those who
are the circumcision here's the only
point I want to make of that the church
was eating together you can't miss that
point that's what was happening in
whatever day that was it doesn't matter
they were eating together let me walk
you through how important eating was the
way it's talked about in the New
Testament Fellowship meals were clearly
going to always be important within the
church based upon the history and based
upon Foods alone in ad 29 Mark we
believe is talking about what happened
here in ad 29 Mark 7: 18 all foods he's
recording not that Mark wrote it in ad
29 but he's recording when it happened
that Jesus made all foods clean that's a
big change why was that important ad40
in Acts 10: 13 and 16 all foods and all
people are now declared clean critical
understanding why is that important well
we need to understand that all people
are clean before God anybody can be
saved but there's more to it than that
in ad 49 acts 15 begins to unveil why
that's important in Acts 15:29 for
expediency sake you remember I taught on
this just a few weeks ago for expediency
sake some food should be avoided but not
because they were forbidden under Christ
but because they had been forbidden by
the Jews and if we're going to eat
together they needed to be expedient
about it so that's the reason that's
discussed by ad 53 and 54 1 Corinthians
10
23-33 are talking talked about and it
says that we should avoid giving offense
to people as we eat with them eating
together eating when you have rules
about how you're to eat together don't
tell me eating together is not important
so we even have rules about it I mean
you can't do this you must do that right
that's what we just did 1 Corinthians 5
and verse 11 keeping company with anyone
named a brother you're not to eat with
them if they're being disfellowship so
obviously it was so common that they ate
together as Brethren you had to command
them not to eat together whenever they
were being dis fellowship and then Jude
1 in verse2 uses this term in your love
Feast while they Feast with you the
early church ate together it ate
together from the very beginning it ate
together all the time we are to eat
together this is not a casual thing
thing where you can say I just really
don't like Fellowship meals get over
your not liking Fellowship meals and go
because it is important every meal with
Jesus every meal with Jesus in the New
Testament does two things or one of two
things either a miracle happens at that
meal either a miracle happens at that
meal or A Mir miraculous a miraculous
look at that miraculous teaching takes
place and so let's look at a few of
those we're only going to look at 10 10
10 oh that's all that I just covered
sorry didn't get to that here we go
that's everything you've got it right
there a meal with Jesus and the married
John chap 2 1-1 he multiplies if you
will the wine which basically was a gift
to the couple because now it was for as
I understand it about
$25,000 worth of
wine on our scale today that's a pretty
good gift by the way it's a wedding it's
mult and here's the thing what's the
significance of going to a wedding and
eating
together if you don't know I don't know
how I can share it with you folks if
somebody's in a wedding and they invite
you you should go it is critical to The
Binding of that relationship and The
Binding of your relationship with them
and a miracle happened at that wedding
that's interesting and first miracle why
there a meal with Jesus and the mongrels
that's what I like to call them because
they're the Samaritans and the
Samaritans in John
4:32 Jesus didn't eat
food there's a meal that takes place
without eating food you're having it
right now when we eat the scriptures
you're having a meal without food right
he says I have food to eat you don't
know anything about in John 4:32 so he
was eating with the
Samaritans that's right the very thing
that they would not want anybody to do
he was eating spiritual food with
Samaritans there's a message in that of
inclusion right that we need to learn
the third lesson I want you to the third
meal is a meal with Jesus and the
Mother-in-law of Peter the Mother-in-law
of Peter she Jesus has been out teaching
it's been a great day and there's been
healing out there and then they come
back to Peter's house and his
mother-in-law is obviously living with
him did you get that his mother-in-law
was living with him did you get that man
his
mother-in-law was living so his
mother-in-law was living with him
important lesson I think and Matthew 8:
14- 15 his mother-in-law had a fever and
Jesus lays his hands on him on her and
she arises and she fixes food for them
well that's not the end of the day
people then gather around outside the
house and he heals everybody that comes
up behind out around the house so there
was a miracle again that day right there
his mother-in-law was healed and then
all these others and she fixed food for
them so they could keep going a meal
with Jesus and the multitudes the bread
and the fishes right we all know the
stories there's two stories they're
great stories in Matthew 169 and 10 it
just mentions the two that's the reason
I use that passage there's the five lows
and the 5,000 or the seven lows and the
4,000 right and how many baskets were
left over afterwards so there's a
message there several messages well the
one is God can do anything he multiply
whatever your needs are that's an
obvious message but one of the major
messages is is that there's enough left
over don't worry God not only can take
care of your need make sure you eat but
there'll be food left over I bet y'all
got stuff in your cupboards right I bet
you do I bet you got enough that you
could probably last a week without going
to the grocery store maybe a month I bet
you do and then number five a meal with
Jesus and the marthas we all know about
Mary well Mary's listening but Martha's
busy cooking getting it ready right it's
at Martha's house this time and Ma Luke
10:
38-42 she wasn't listening She Was
preparing now is that wrong no that's
not wrong if that's what you need to do
that's not wrong but don't get mad at
somebody who is listening okay sometimes
that's the best lesson we could ever get
conviction was happening to Mary I don't
know exactly all that was going on with
Mary but Mary needed convicting she
needed to listen that was important to
her but how many marthas are there at
our fellowship meals I love those
marthas if it wasn't for marthas we
wouldn't have Fellowship meals that's
honest truth amen that's the truth
number six a meal with Jesus and the
Miser yes he goes over to a miser's
house his name's Jack zakus he a little
guy climbs up in a sycamore tree to even
see Jesus coming by but in Luke chap 19
1-10 the best part about this is that
apparent
Just for Jesus coming I don't know what
Jesus said I don't know what happened at
that meal I've got nothing but I know
toward the end of that meal what
happened he says uh I'm going to give
half of what I have to the
poor you going to do
that he had been stealing from people
apparently he said I'm going to give
half of what I have to the poor I'm
going to fix this and anybody that I
have messed around I'm going to return
that
fourfold and Jesus says salvation's come
here
right sometimes you need a meal with
Jesus so you can stop being a miser and
start being a good person to the people
around you need a meal with Jesus a meal
with Jesus and the Mar's though and
that's in John 12 1-7 particularly and
that is Lazarus at the meal Jesus is
being honored at the meal Lazarus being
honored at the meal and Mary realizes
what had this man really is about that
he's not normal and she's so convicted
she comes in and washes his feet with
this ointment that she has and cries and
washes his feet with her tears a true
conversion takes place a great message
takes place because she who had prepared
him for his burial they didn't believe
he was about to die they didn't
understand that I'm fixing to die and
she's preparing me for my burial
that's the Marys there's a meal with
Jesus and the
malicious Judas was at that meal in John
Chapter 13 21-30 this is the Passover
meal this is the meal where the Lord's
Supper is instituted this is the meal
that we remember every week when we take
bread and the fruit of the vine and in
that meal there's a fellow there named
Judas es scariot who is going to create
the situation that leads to Jesus
crucifixion he does it to him sells him
out he sent out he goes
out because Jesus knows what he's going
to do he says I need you to do it
quickly I don't blame him if I was
facing this don't you want it over as
fast as you could get it if I could get
it over in less than 12 hours I would if
I could get it over in less than 6 hours
I would if I could get it over in 30
minutes I would and if I was Jesus
facing this I'd say get it done fast get
it over with it sends him out everybody
thought he's going to buy bread but he's
gone out to betray him and then there's
a meal with Jesus and the militia in
John 21: 12-19 the the real Soldiers of
Christ were left there was only a
handful left at that point and they were
still struggling this is the third of
appearance of Jesus after his
resurrection now I don't know about you
but if I saw Jesus one time after the
resurrection I might think I saw
something I might think well I was just
a little
goofy if I T saw him two times I'd be
like I don't know maybe I did see the
resurrected Jesus but if I saw him three
times and the third time he is cooking
breakfast for me which is what he did he
cooked them breakfast that was the meal
they had and I'm doing it for the guys
that are really going to out there
they're the true Soldiers of Christ and
I need to prepare them for what's ahead
and he prepares Peter with Peter Peter
do you love me more than these do you
after he denied him three times do you
love me do you love me Peter
and a meal with Jesus and the
manent what is
that that means to set free to release
from slavery all of us who've been
released when does that take place
that's in heaven my friend there is a
meal I'm sorry I believe in a
resurrected body I don't understand what
I'm fixing to say but I believe that we
this body will rise from the dead you
say this body yes tangible yes tangible
capable of eating yes just like Jesus
capable of eating needing to eat I don't
know about that but capable of eating
and there's going to be a meal yes
there's going to be a marriage supper of
the lamb and all of us who've been set
free from our sin and all the guilt and
all the shame of all the things we did
before are invited to that meal we go to
the meal as the bride
of Christ the bride walks in not as one
of the guests it's just somebody there
we're the honored ones at the guest it
isn't the Angels it's us that are the
honored ones I could keep seeing it
there's this Banner overhead welcome
home and we sit down to tables that go
as far as the eye can see tables chairs
food I believe it's real food I believe
it's I hope it's chicken marriage supper
the lamb but for all I know it be lamb I
don't know but the idea of celebrating
we're finally home I believe that
celebration will really happen now I may
not know the details like I just said
but I believe that's coming meals with
Jesus that's 10 stories and that's not
nearly all the stories but they speak to
a place within us don't
it something within
one of the reasons we like Thanksgiving
is't it it's the food and the fellowship
is it really that we spend the whole day
doing nothing but praying and thanking
the lord for every little thing that
happens in our life no it's the meals
and The Fellowship of the family every
meal with Jesus is either a miracle or a
miraculous message every one of them
food and here's the connection listen to
this food
caused the
curse that fell on us
all why would it not just be the right
thing to do when the curse is lifted for
us to bind together with food why would
it not be the Lord's Supper why would it
not be the marriage supper of the Lamb
food that had caused the
curse is best given when the curse is
lifted Gloria and Bill Gaither wrote
These are they and there's one little
section in it I just I want to read this
to you I know you'd like me to sing it
right sing it yeah yeah I'll I'll
hold the oceans give up all the dead
that are in them the graves open wide to
set captives free and those who are
roaming the Earth rise to meet them
Abraham's
seed as the SS of the
sea these are they who've come out of
Great
Tribulation they've washed their robes
in the blood of the
Lamb they have gone through much sorrow
into great
Jubilation they're Redeemed by the blood
of the
Lamb like a strong in Mighty Army their
voices all
ringing the great cloud of witnesses
sings Freedom song as they enter the
country built by their own father the
promised
Homeland they've looked for so
long and all the
pilgrims and all the
strangers they will no longer be
strangers
all the tired and the weary
wers they will wonder no more the table
is spread for the great celebration and
the welcome home Banner flies over the
door these are they who have come out of
Great
Tribulation they have washed their robes
in the blood of the Lamb they've gone
through much sorrow into great
Jubilation they're redeemed
by the blood of the
Lamb Hebrews 13:10
says we have a table to eat
of those don't have a right
to if you want to partake of the table
that we partake of then you two must
become one of us bought Redeemed by the
blood of the
Lamb repent of your
sins confess your faith that you believe
Jesus Christ as the Risen Lord and be
baptized and you will be invited to the
final great
celebration meals with
Jesus I don't think that'll be the last
one but I want to be a part of that
don't you
