now young people I think probably young
people because you're innocent even
though you've done wrong probably at
this point and you're maybe thinking
you're bad even I know some teenagers
really think they're bad wait until you
get to be about my age and then you'll
see you weren't quite as bad as you
thought you were back then um so but
youngsters
you know some are going to tell you that
they love
you uh but they're making empty promises
and you need to be aware of
that um Russell Herman for example was a
67y old carpenter uh when he died in
1994 in his will he left a staggering
set of
bequest he left Believe It or Not $2
billion for the city of East St Louis he
left a billion and a half for the state
of Illinois he left 2 a half billion for
the national forest system and then he
left $6 trillion to the government to
help pay off their national
debt that's amazingly
generous except when you find out that
Herman's only asset was a 1983 o mobile
he wasn't really being
generous he was
just making comments
pronouncements
beware there are people who will love
you in word but not indeed young
people 1 John 3:18 let us not love in
word but indeed and in truth Real Love
is more than just nice platitudes and
what I'd love to do for
you what is real love if it's not just
empty
words and empty promises what is it well
I went to authorities the authorities
are kids Billy who's four said this when
someone loves you the way they say your
name is different ju you just know that
your name is safe in their
mouth Elaine who was five said this love
is when when Mommy gives daddy the best
piece of
chicken Chrissy who six said this love
is when you go out to eat and give
somebody most of your French fries
without making them give you any of
theirs that's a McDonald's person for
sure Danny who's seven said love is when
my mommy makes coffee for my daddy and
she takes a sip before giving it to him
to make sure it tastes
okay Rebecca who's eight this is the old
sage of the group says this when my
grandmother got
arthritis she couldn't bend over and
paint her toenails anymore so my
grandfather does it for her all the time
even when his hands got arthritis too
that's love
I'm not going to argue with that but I
will say this that I don't think any of
that is real love it's a form of love
but it's not real love because first
John first John 4 verse 8 and verse 16
both say that God is love there's not a
person in this room that fully knows
God because it's impossible to fully
know God
he's an infinite being you can't know
Infinity you can't fully comprehend him
there's no aspect of him that you can
fully comprehend you can't fully
comprehend a God that's infinite so he
has infinite love and I can't fully
comprehend anything that's
infinite so when we read of it what is
God's love like honestly it's beyond me
Isaiah 40 54:8 says with Everlasting
kindness I will have mercy on you Isaiah
55:8 my thoughts are not your thoughts
and nor are my ways your ways so
literally his love isn't like our
love and if you think you love at God's
level you are
mistaken Jeremiah
31:3 I have loved you with an
everlasting love let me explain just
right now without going any further so
you know that you know nothing about the
love he has if he has Everlasting Love
he has never not loan you and he's never
not loved you you've not loved him that
long how long you've loved him 50 60
years maybe you've been a faithful
follower 70 years you love the Lord he
has loved you before you were thought
before the world was created he loved
you an everlasting love so no you don't
love on his level Hosea 3:1 give you a
little picture of something that we need
to understand and he tells Hosea love a
woman this is his wife that had left him
love a woman who is loved by a lover and
is committing
adultery go love your woman who's
committing adultery right now just like
the love of the Lord for the children of
Israel because you and I are always
committing spiritual adultery every time
he turn
around Matthew 5 ver 44 says to love
your enemies I know that that's true
that God loves his enemies because he
loved me before I became his friend
right you right so I know he does it so
I don't love on that level I don't I
wish I did but I'm not sure I can I
don't know if I'll ever be able to fully
love that way I don't even think in
heaven Beyond here that I'll be able to
do that because I'll never be
God God's love is real love it can be
ours but only a little bit why don't I
say that well Ephesians 3: 19 says we
are to know the love of Christ which
passes knowledge so I'm not making that
up it's beyond what I can know I'm to
know it just like we know God and yet we
don't fully know him it's not
possible so God's love is real it can be
ours to a degree but there are fake
forms of love folks friendliness is not
really this real love infatuation isn't
this real love and certainly lust is not
this real love but since God's love is
real and a real quality of God because I
mean he's even described as love it
makes sense it would be a fruit of the
spirit if the spirit indwells us and
therefore we would express love better
than we would do without that so today
during our study we're going to look at
the concepts of that I want us to look
basically at three broad areas that
emphasize this concept and then
encourages us to reach Beyond where
we've
been number one real love is beyond our
awareness and we're going to look at uh
if you will turn to it if you will
Romans 5: 5 through 8 just simply walk
through this it is beyond I mean I it's
funny people think oh I never no one's
ever loved like I have no no no you've
never loved like he's loved that's the
difference Real Love is known by
Expressions uh God is real love and he's
expressed his love by his words and by
his works and by his son and by his
Spirit Romans 5:5 says it this way and
this is all in Romans 5 says now hope
does not disappoint because the love of
God has been poured out into our hearts
by the Holy Spirit who was given to us
so we do have God's love in us now but
only a measure John 1 ver14 says the
word became flesh so ain't nobody ever
loved me like Jesus and that's just the
way it is so real love is known by these
Expressions that God has made toward us
but real love is also known by by
experiences God is real love and by
experiences we see man's love can be
great but God's love is greater and it's
a good example right here Romans 5 again
verses 6 and 7 says this for when we
were still without Strength In Due Time
Christ died for the ungodly that's you
and I verse seven for scarcely for
righteous man will one die occasionally
a man is willing to die for a good
person he says yet Perhaps for a good
man someone would even dare to die so
yeah maybe you'd die for a good person
but that's not he committed his love
while we were still unrighteous in Titus
2 verse 11 says for the grace of God
that brings salvation has appeared to
all men so the entire world right now
knows it believe it or not not the
entire world knows about Jesus I'm not
saying they know the details but they
all have heard of Jesus the whole world
knows about Jesus it's appeared to all
men that there was supposedly some
people believe that maybe the word
became flesh and dwelt Among Us they
they they kind of know that story and
died for our sins and nothing we've ever
known has ever been like that leaving
that for this and dying like that Real
Love is known not only by experiences
and by Expressions but by example God is
real love and his example defines real
love offering his son for unbelieving
Unfaithful and ungodly group of people
that's what it says in verse eight but
God demonstrates his own love toward us
in that while we were still sinners
Christ died for us that's John 3:16 all
over again for God so loved the world
the world not the righteous God so love
the world that he gave his only begotten
son 1 John 3:16 by this we know love
this is how we even know anything about
love if it's based upon our own
experience we would never get there but
by this we know love because he laid
down his life for us and real love is
beyond our awareness so if it weren't
for these expressions and experiences
and examples we'd have no awareness of
what real love
is and therefore it's essential that we
get a dose of the scriptures and the
Holy Spirit works on our heart and gives
us the fruit of
Love second love truth that we need to
get and you might want to turn to 1
Corinthians 13 we're going to sit there
for a minute go to 1 Corinthians 13
veres 1-3 Real Love is beyond our
aptitudes I know it may seem like oh I
can do it it no you
can't you can't love at his level it's
beyond your ability it's beyond your
aptitude Real Love is more than our
graciousness yes love should use
gracious behaviors gracious words we
should speak to each other with
graciousness in our hearts but we can
say stuff we don't
mean and every one of us
have we've said things we didn't
mean 1 Corinthians
13:1 though I speak with the tongues of
men and of angels but have not love see
you can say wondrous things and not mean
a word of
it not mean a word of it but God
can't everything he's ever said about
how he loves you he meant every word
Real Love is more than our gifted
and this is an important truth yes love
should be shown by those who are
supposedly the more spiritual but
religion can be used as a
cloak religion's not all it's cracked up
to be church folks aren't all so
wonderful y'all don't walk on water
you're not perfect I'm not perfect we're
not so great we act like oh church
people are so great well we just we're
just saved by the grace of God but but
the truth is is that giftedness doesn't
mean I'm suddenly now going to be more
loving because 1 Corinthians 13:2 says
though I have the gift of Prophecy and
understand all Mysteries and all
knowledge and though I have all Faith so
that I could remove mountains but have
not love are you saying that someone
like an apostle could even be a person
without love actually that happened ever
heard of a fellow named Judas so yes it
can happen you can have all the gifts be
given miraculous ability and not have
love and then Real Love is more than our
generosity sometimes we think we're so
generous yes love is giving as God gave
his son but giving can be used just to
control those around you some of you
ladies would probably understand this
more than you men would but there are
ladies who would be given a gift and
would hate receiving a gift why would
they receive a gift because the man
doesn't want to do the hard work of
changing his attitude and not being
angry he wants to just give you roses
and everything be
okay some of you ladies know all about
that too well you men don't know that as
much but they know that in 1 Corinthians
13:3 says though I bestow all my goods
to feed the poor and though I give my
body to be burned but have not love so
it's it's possible to do great acts that
look like you care and not care and not
love so real love quite honestly is
beyond our aptitudes and is therefore
more than when we're gracious it's more
than that it's more than us expressing
our giftedness it's more than that it's
more than when we're generous because
we've never been as generous as God
never
all right last
lesson Real Love is beyond our
assumptions and this is still in 1
Corinthians chapter 13 let's just walk
through Verses 4 through2 if you haven't
turned there I'd encourage you maybe to
do that see we
think and and this is cause we're full
of Pride quite honestly all of us you
know we struggle I mean most people
aren't full of humility they're full of
Pride we think we've loved enough but
real love
assures
more listen to this text you see real
love assures you more with an
overwhelming
positivity verse four love suffers
long and is
kind love does not
envy love does not parade
itself is not puffed
up it does not behave
rudely how many times have I've been
rude just that alone I don't have to go
anywhere else does not behave rudely
does not seek its own oh no I've never
wanted to get mine right that's NE is
not provoked how many times I've been
provoked thinks no evil huh I've thought
evil about so many
people does not rejoice in
iniquity but rejoices in the truth you
see we think we've loved enough but real
love
assures
more more and we think that we've loved
enough but real love endures more we
just sang it that's a great song it's
good job uh verse
seven because real love
endures
you without failing it endures more
without failing without ceasing without
disappearing it
Bears all things you know I used to
think that song that song We were
singing a while ago I used to think that
was supposed to be us exess expressing
our love for God but no that's not us
expressing our love for God that's God's
expressional love for us because I can't
bear all things I can't you push me
you'll find out I won't Bear all things
that's just the way I am uh I won't Bear
all things I won't put up with all
things I won't believe all things you
can you can say oh yeah you can believe
all things oh no no no no no I I need
check up on some folks right yeah you
can say love believeth all things but
I've noticed love checketh up on all
things too don't
they and it hopes all things I don't
hope all
things and endures all all
things Love Never Fails how many times
do my love
fail but where there are prophecies they
will fail preaching is just going to
kill you whether there are tongues they
will cease where there is knowledge it
will vanish
away so we think we've loved enough but
real love endures
more we think we've loved enough but
real love matures more it it is so
mature you see it matures more with
grownup ideas I know we all think we're
spiritually mature but we're
not we're not wh which one of us aren't
spiritually mature well the one that's
hearing me and the one that's talking
okay that's it that's who's not mature
not like this maturity it's like Noah
knowing you are you think you are you
know you're mature and and yet it gives
you some
maturity of knowing who you
are and knowing who they are and Still
Loving them that's
God by knowing what we are responsible
for and doing it that's God it says in
verse 9 for we know in part and we
prophesy in part that's partialness
that's what we do verse 10 but with that
which is perfect or the complete has
come then that which is in part will be
done away so we're all partial about
everything we do here when I was a child
I spoke as a child I understood as a
child thought as a child but when I
became a man to put away childish things
there is a maturing process well God
doesn't need to
mature he is
mature he's the only one that really is
for now we see in a mirror dimly but
then face to face now know in part but
then I shall know just as I'm also known
one day one day one day so real love is
beyond our assumptions because we assume
we think that we've loved enough but
real love assures more than what I've
been doing it it endures more than what
I've been been doing and and it matures
more than the way I want to mature so
that's a lesson uh that's all of it you
know I want to tell you a couple of
stories and then I'll be
done a story of of false
love a dunch diamond
collector was seeking for a very rare
diamond and a dealer in New York his
name was Winston Mr Winston thought he
had the diamond that the man was looking
for it was been and well known and so he
contacted this diamond
collector and he told him he believed he
possessed the diamond he was looking
for the diamond collector arrived and Mr
Winston had his very best salesman sit
down with him and present the diamond to
the man
now I don't know anything about this
world so I don't know if I can speak to
it very clearly but he described the
technical aspects of the diamond had was
made where it was found the beauty of it
within minutes the diamond collector
Rose and said this is not what he's
looking for and he got up to
go and Mr
Winston intercepted it before he got to
the door and and he said wait just a
second can I talk to you about the
diamond and so he said sure he Saidi
really do think this is the diamond you
want so they went back and sat down
again he
agreed and within a few minutes he was
signing papers and he walked out with
that
diamond and then the diamond collector
said
wait what just happened I was certain
that wasn't the diamond I wanted I heard
your salesman and all of a sudden I'm
back in here what did you do what just
happened what just happened Mr Winston
said well you know that salesman is the
best in the
business he knows more about diamonds
than anyone including myself he knows
way more about diamonds than I do and I
pay him a large sum of money for his
knowledge and his
expertise but I would gladly pay him
twice as much if I could put into him
something I had have which he
lacks you see he knows
diamonds but I love
them there's a fake
love know a lot about a
field but not really love
it then there's I'm going tell you a
story about Real Love A
drunker some of you lived in that world
I lived in that world I know a little
bit about that world
a drunker husband spending his evening
with his friends at the bar began to
brag and to boast he said I got a
Christian wife back at home she's in bed
said but I'm telling you straight up I
could go home right now I can invite all
of you guys we could go home it's nearly
midnight and she's in bed we could get
back there to the house and I could
demand that she get up and make us
supper right now at midnight and she
would do it in fact Not only would she
do it but she'd do it with a smile and
she'd make me the best supper make all
of you good ser and they said a that's
not true your wife wouldn't do that
that's not going to happen he says I'm
telling you you want to test it out they
said let's go see if it'll happen so
they went to his house he went upstairs
woke his wife up made the
ungodly command to come down and fixed
all those men supper at midnight she got
up she got
dressed she went down with a smile on
and she made those men a lovely meal and
she smiled all the way through it and
served them
wonderfully after the meal was over one
of the
drunkard said to her
how are you able to be so kind when
we've been so
unreasonable here's your answer sir when
my husband and I were married we were
both
Sinners it pleased God to call me out of
that dangerous
condition my husband continues in
it I tremble for his future
state worried to
die I think it's my duty to render his
present existence as comfortable as
possible folks that's real
love that's real
love long after this not long after this
her drunker husband became a changed
believer you know false love looks real
false love looks
real in just a few days you'll
see even though it sounds real talks
real but in a few days it'll be revealed
it's not real love and real love looks
false people talk bad a people at church
who were trying to love people because
the world's view of love in ours oh you
can't say that's wrong kind of attitude
so it looks false to the world it even
sounds false to them but in a little
while you'll see it's the real
deal so if you could only see and accept
the lifechanging real love of the father
and how's he expressed it in who in who
in
Jesus that's it you want to know real
love it's Jesus without EXP ing
Perfection He sent Jesus knowing that we
weren't going to get it right knowing we
were never going to get it right he
saved us in Jesus knowing that you and I
sit here today every last one of us sit
here today and every last one of us have
done things wrong this last week alone
and maybe even this morning every last
one of us and he still loves
us yeah
if you would receive it you could
experience that great love yourself
repenting of your sins confessing the
name of Christ being baptized even this
day I hope one day you get to actually
see what real love
is what you saying what do you mean well
the Eastern Sky will part and it will
appear and I hope you get to walk in the
city streets with real
love but until then let's try to express
as much of it as we can if you're not
right with the Lord that'll let us help
you while we stand
