you know some doubt what you think you
know about all your
experiences I mean that's a maybe a
natural thing for us to do that we
doubt what we think we know about what
we've gone through for example I was 18
when I told my family I was in love and
I was going to marry a certain de she be
and uh so they asked me all kinds of
questions my my brother and my dad took
me off and basically gave me a
grilling not really believing I knew
what I was talking about and so you know
some say that that funny feeling that
you get when you think you're falling in
love is common sense leaving the body
but when they grilled me and asked me I
don't know if Deb even knows they did
this but I think she does but when they
asked me over and over again
um how how do you know you're in
love and I said I just
know 47 years later that's about the
best answer I can give now I just know
um so critics of
Christianity
ask how do you know he
lives and the answer really is kind of I
just
know prove
it I don't need to prove
it you need to just meet him I had a
dream recently uh this is unusual for me
and it's not a prophetic dream so don't
get excited but I had this dream and it
was a strange stream because y'all know
Neil
degr Tyson do y'all know that guy the
scientist the he's a he's an agnostic he
doesn't believe in God but he talks a
lot on TV whenever they talk to people
about space and stuff anyway I had a
dream about him strangely enough
so uh he didn't believe in God
and he wanted me to prove that God
exists to
him and I refused I said I'm not going
to do
that and but I did say this to him and
this is in a dream and it was weird that
I remembered it woke up and remembered
it but this is was a dream I said both
of us are going to
die you're going to die and I'm going to
die if I'm wrong I'm never going to know
that I was
wrong I'll die
happy but if I'm right I'll die even
happier you on the other hand you too
are going to
die and when you die you're going to die
happy thinking you're right and that'll
be it for you
or you'll die thinking you're happy that
you're right and then all of a sudden
you're going to to discover you were
wrong and you're going to be really
embarrassed as educated as you
are folks it's almost that simple see I
don't really believe now this going to
upset some of you I don't really believe
in Christian
evidences oh I've studied that oh I got
books I've studied that all my life I
don't believe anybody believes because
of that I believe it supports your
belief
but I don't believe anybody came to
Jesus just for
that
no I don't think we have to prove Jesus
at all at
all I believe it's a choice you simply
make a choice common sense and then a
choice Alfred Henry
akley wrote the song We sang a while
ago uh he studied music from childhood
he is a presbyterian Minister and in
1914 he wrote this particular song uh or
at least he wrote several he started
writing songs in 1914 wrote this one in
1933 he wrote 1500 hymns must have been
a pretty good writer but what inspired
this hymn that we sang a moment ago is
he actually had a conversation with an
unbelieving jewish individual who did
not believe that Jesus was the son of
God and he asked actly the question why
should I worship a dead
Jew pretty good question I
suppose and this is what he answered but
Jesus lives he lives I tell you he is
not dead but lives here and now Jesus
Christ is more alive today than ever
before and I can prove it by my own
experience as well as by the testimony
of countless
thousands and believe it or not that led
to convincing that Jew that Jesus rose
from the dead and it led him to write
this song but there are a lot of
Christians and you may not be one of
them and I hope you're not but there are
a lot of Christians who don't like that
song we
sang they think it endorses a subjective
appeal to
experience H I disagree with that
totally the song as you see above you I
serve a risen savior he's in the world
today I know that he's living whatever
men may say and I see his hand of mercy
and I hear his voice of cheer and just
the time I need him he's always near
that's such a great lyrics but it's so
true look at what it summarizes if he
lives within my heart he are things that
are true I see his hand of
Mercy I hear his voice a cheer when I
need him he's always near he walks and
talks with me I see his loving care he
leads me through the storming blast I
know that Jesus Christ is King he's
alive now that doesn't nullify ify the
idea that there are evidences of course
there are evidences the scripture itself
is evidence the very fact that the Bible
exists the very fact that it's been
studied and analyzed and criticized and
looked at as many different ways so many
people have tried to discourage people
from reading it tried to destroy it
tried to keep people from thinking
through it without reading it and most
people who criticize it haven't read
read it very
much but if you look at it you know that
wasn't written by a fellow by himself
but that's one evidence another evidence
is the historical evidence and just just
so you know everything it says happened
happened and where did it happen right
where it says it happened is there
evidence for that oh more than you could
possibly
imagine but who's going to sit around
and go look at the dirt and dig it up
and look at the evidence most of you
don't have time for that but believe me
I spent a lot of time doing just that
and everything I've ever checked is
exactly not kind of exactly the way it
said it happened so that's evidence but
one of the major evidences is your
personal experience and I know that
there are a lot of people that end up
not believing in God because God didn't
give them everything they wanted well
God ain't giv me everything I want
either has he given you absolutely I you
know I one point I wanted a pony I'm so
grateful I don't have a
pony have you ever messed with a pony
they'll bite you kick you one tried to
kill me so
I'm but I'll tell
you I could tell you stories and you
could too amen I can tell you about my
Dove on my kitchen table
I can tell you about seven years and
seven
churches I can tell you a lot of stories
I can tell you about people who were
dying and Aren't Dead oh yeah I can tell
you a lot of stories I do believe those
support your faith but I think what
really happens is you
choose you choose to believe that's why
we're told believe you see he can't tell
you to do something you didn't
choose so you choose to believe or you
choose to not believe so if you're
sitting there and you don't believe it's
not because you've looked at the
evidence you think that's it it's C you
chose because it didn't suit you for
some
reason and then you tried to justify
it here's the reasons I want to give you
just three this is how I know Jesus
lives in my heart and I'm sure you sang
that song and you mean it you know it
too because of my faith I know he lives
within my heart that's what Galatians
suggests I have been crucified with
Christ it is no longer I who live but
Christ lives in me amen and the life
which I now so it didn't just he lives
in heaven no no he lives in me and the
life which I now Live In the Flesh I
live by faith in the Son of God who
loved me and gave himself for me it has
totally changed me in my heart and it
was that faith that did it Galatians
3:26 says for you are all sons of God
through faith in Christ Jesus so I know
he lives I know he lives because the
Bible says it I got it the scriptures I
know he lives because the historical
evidence I got it I believe that but I
also know he lives because the evidence
of my heart the faith that is within me
and the choice that you and I have made
number
two because of my love I know he lives
within my
heart I one time I had a guy tell me uh
how do you even know you God Lives
within you if you don't show some
miraculous abilities
and I used a verse that we're going to
look at here in just a moment Romans 5
let me get back to that let me read
Ephesians 3:17 says that Christ May
dwell in your hearts through faith that
you being rooted and grounded in love
see he dwells in my heart through faith
like we just read but it is displayed in
love so Romans 5 verse 5 says now hope
does not disappoint because the love of
God has been poured out into our hearts
by the Holy Spirit who was given to us
so he asked me he's a good friend of
mine he's a Pentecostal guy and he says
how do you know that you're even saved
if you're not doing what I'm doing these
Miracles and stuff and I said well I
love
you you see one of the major ways you
know that you're serving the lord is
what love you love people that aren't
always nice to you people who aren't
kind to you it's the love that's been
poured out I know he lives because my
love in Christ displays it isn't yes I I
believe the scriptures absolutely every
word of it you you want to talk about it
anything in here you want a question I'd
be happy to sit down and talk to you
about it I'll show you the evidence that
this is absolutely 100% true on any
chapter you want to go to amen yes sir
I'll go there with you amen we'll go
there with you it is true I can show you
historical evidence be happy to do that
we can spend months talking about the
historical evidence it's there all of it
happened just like it says that's not a
question there is a grave that is empty
that's all
true but it's also my personal
experience and that is that somehow
somebody who wasn't very loving came
from a pretty rough family of alcohol
and
abuse actually loves
people something happened where'd that
come
from number
three because of my hope I know he lives
within my heart Colossians 1: 27 says to
them God will to make known what are the
riches of his glory of the mystery among
the Gentiles which is this is the great
mystery Christ in
you the hope of glory amen Christ in you
the hope of glory that's what Glory hope
but it's also what I hoped and I still
hope amen 1 Corinthians 15: 19 if in
this life only we have hope in Christ we
are of all men the most pible I mean if
if this is it and there really isn't
life after this and everybody just dies
like Rover and they're dead all over and
it's over if that's all there is we've
kind of messed
up we've kind of messed up honestly it's
not that big of a mess but it's it's
pretty pitiful because especially if
you're like Paul who dies for it but
it's that hope in Christ that's in my
heart amen I hope for heaven amen and by
the way the word hope does doesn't mean
I just wish it would happen the word
hope means full Assurance I have full
Assurance we're all going to heaven when
it's over with amen when we all get to
heaven not when some of us get there so
I know he lives and My Hope in is in
Christ and it's based on scriptural
evidence yes it is based on historical
evidence yes but it's also based on the
experiences of my own heart and your own
heart
amen but then beyond all that it was a
choice it was a choice so
ask how you know he
lives and the answer will come back I
know he lives in my heart because of my
faith because of my love and because of
my hope that's all within my heart so
that faith that hope that love that's
within my heart is the evidence of
Christ CHR in my heart and that's what's
evidence within you but the issue is not
so much convincing others that Christ
lives in us I'm not really concerned
whether or not you believe Christ lives
in me I'm a rag tag individual I'm not
so special I'm just another person just
like you if you don't believe Christ
loves in me I don't know that that
matters that
much the question is whether or not you
believe Christ lives in in
you there's the
question as I heard this story it must
be true a
mouse was playing out in a
field and the mouse as he's playing out
in his field suddenly Sees at a distance
a cat and the cat at the same time
spotted
him and starts after him the Mouse runs
for his life runs from the field into
the forest and after he gets in he's so
terrified this cat's about to get him he
calls out to his fairy godmother I told
you it sounds like a true story so he
calls out to his fairy godmother Fairy
Godmother turn me a mouse into a cat the
cat the Fairy Godmother appears and goes
okay boom and he turns into a
cat and so the other cat leaves him
Alone by and by he's out in a field one
day and a spots a vicious dog at a
distance and at that moment the vicious
dog sees him as well and he runs away
from the from the dog he's a cat so he
runs as hard as he can he runs to the
forest and then he's so terrified he
just knows the dog is going to get him
and kill him and so he calls up to his
fairy godmother that true story comes
clear again and the Fairy Godmother
appears
and he says please turn me a cat into a
dog so that that dog won't eat me and so
Fairy Godmother says sure blink and he's
a a dog well by and by the dog's out in
the field one day and he looks up and
all of a sudden he sees this giant
tiger oh no and the tiger sees him in
exactly that same moment and he runs for
his life to the forest the Tiger's right
after him he gets into the forest and as
he gets he's so terrified he calls out
to his fairy godmother he says please
turn me into a tiger or that Tiger's
going to eat me and he goes sure we'll
do it clean you're a
tiger and so the tiger leaves him alone
well one day this story has to be true
right so this one day the tiger out in
the field walking around and all of a
sudden he sees some native Hunters
humans
and they're hunting for a tiger and they
see him he takes off runs to the forest
and so the men are chasing after him
he's so terrified he gets into the
forest he says Fairy Godmother please
turn me into a hunter otherwise they're
going to kill me fairy godmother appears
and says this you know I transformed you
from a mouse to a cat from a cat to a
dog from a dog to a tiger and and now
you want me to transfer you transform
you from a tiger to a native
Hunter I can make you whatever you wish
to
become but if your heart Still Remains
the fearful heart of a little mouse it
will not change
you Jesus has to live in your heart
folks there has to be a change down deep
up otherwise you've just put on a
mask there has to be a change we're not
calling you just to believe we're
calling you to a revolutionary change
that starts within your heart and what
happens when Faith hit it hits it what
happens when love hits it what happens
when hope hits it and that revolutionary
change now I understand that some of you
may have used to have this ch change of
heart but maybe you've wandered away
there's a story about a young girl if I
can get this to go there I don't know if
it's going to go okay there I get past
the Fairy Godmother story her name is
Fiona cot Fiona cot was Australia's
first heart transplant she's 14 years
old
1984 she had some kind of viral uh thing
that hit her and destroyed her heart so
they transplanted a new heart into her
she was doing great and then she
rejected her heart so they went and put
another heart in her and she's doing
fine to this very
day one of the longest
living people have had a change of
heart and I know some of you had a
change of heart and you became a
Christian but you've had a change change
of heart and you chose to not
believe you chose to give it up and what
I'm suggesting to you is you can change
again just like she got CH you can
change again if you've had a change of
heart you once believed you cease to
believe because you chose not to you can
choose to believe again so change your
heart he lives amen he lives Christ
Jesus lives today and Because He Lives I
Can Face Tomorrow Amen in fact that's
the only reason I really want to get up
in the morning is God Lives I mean and
because he lives all fear is gone I
don't have to fear anything and because
he holds the future life is worth the
Living Just Because He
Lives now the question
is can
you do one little simple thing you're
thinking I know some of you think well
you have to study it all I got to study
the Bible until I know I've got to study
everything about it oh I've got to study
all the historical evidence I got to
study Christian evidences I got to be
convinced I've got to no no oh I've got
to have an experience with God if I
don't get that experience then I want no
no no no here's what you got to do
choose it's up to you if you would
choose to serve the Risen Savior then
you can repent of your sins this very
day you can confess his name and you can
be baptized this day and you can serve
him the rest of your life choose you
this day who you will serve if you need
to come come while we stand and while we
sing
