nobody has become a very popular
word uh maybe some of you remember 1973
a lot of you weren't around then but
maybe you remember my name is nobody
Terren Hill he was a gunfighter who
could uh slap those who were trying to
have a gunfight with him faster than
they could pull their gun maybe you
remember that in 2021 there was a movie
called nobody uh the detectives at the
end of the movie are asking uh Hutch
Manel who are you and he says me me I'm
I'm
nobody and uh so maybe you remember that
Matthew West John Mark Hall Melvin
Williams Douglas Williams and Leonard
Williams and Bernard Herms wrote a song
together that you might have heard if
you listen to Christian music along it
says this I'm Just a Nobody trying to
tell everybody all about somebody who
saved my soul ever since you rescued me
you gave my heart a song to sing I'm
looking for the world to see nobody but
Jesus I like those words Brandon Lake
Cody KS and Hank Bentley another Nobody
song has got a song out right now called
ain't nobody and it goes like this ain't
nobody Love Me Like Jesus ain't nobody
love me this good ain't nobody Love Me
Like Jesus and I know I know nobody
could good Alabama song ain't
nobody uh if you're uh trying to figure
out where we're going with this it may
take you a minute so don't get upset
hang on uh an example of how being a
nobody can be very important is in the
text that we just read now it's also
recorded in Matthew Chapter 5 you want
to look at that one verses 5 through 13
let me give you some background of this
this is kind of interesting stuff to Me
Maybe it isn't to you but it'll tell you
a little bit about the Roman army so in
the Roman army right you uh when they
first developed the Roman army if you
wanted to be a lifer you went 16 years
and then it became 20 years and then it
became 25 years but the last five years
of the veteran was he was given lighter
duties he didn't have to do the stuff
that you would normally have to do and
didn't generally fight in the battle uh
but then after they were discharged they
got pay for 13 years but when they first
were discharged they got a lump sum pay
and it comes out to about 3,000 daera
and and I'm assuming that's probably
officer pay but it didn't spell it out
in what I was reading but that pay that
one lump sum payout was equivalent to
$130,500 today not a bad lump sum and
then you got salt for the rest of your
life now uh salt was or at least for the
13 years you got a block of a 10 pounds
of salt and then you could turn around
and you could sell that it was worth
quite a lot of money back then and the
Romans got that from salt mines that
they dug with slavery if you will the
Centurian servant that's mentioned in
this text is likely 60 years old or
older now how do you get that Rex I mean
it doesn't mention it all in the text
and it's not from me it's from uh
doctors who have studied this text
and the description that it gives to it
and what's going on with it they believe
that he had Progressive
superclear py or PSP is what it's often
called it's a deadly py but it only
strikes you generally when you're 60 or
over so he was likely had been this
man's servant for quite a number of
years now he's elderly and this man
who's not in retirement is apparently
still got him around
and respects him a great deal appar
that's the Roman soldier the Centurion
that respects him apparently he had
become like a father figure to the
Centurion I mean that becomes obvious as
you read the text even though he's this
unknown sickly servant now that suddenly
can't do what he once could do for the
Centurion and without knowing his name
we have a great impact made and we don't
know the name of the Centurion either by
the way but we don't know the name of
the man who worked for him we don't have
any idea who he was we're pretty certain
he was a Jewish guy but that's about all
and and the reason we're pretty certain
is because how he had influenced this
Centurion apparently because of this
older man who's now sick influenced this
Centurion had begun to love in ways he'
Never Loved Before He Loved the Jewish
people he did charitable acts for the
Jewish people he made friends with the
Jewish elders and that's a big thing cuz
that was a rare thing he had given to
and helped build a synagogue for them
and so he had developed a lot of
friendships and many of them likely made
possible by this 60 plus year old
servant who was such a good guy he was
obviously a humble man because the way
he deals with Jesus when he comes to
help he has a man he's a man of Faith
because Jesus says that so what we see
is a
nobody who influenced a somebody to do
some great
things that's the message today I'm
going to keep talking
though there is nobody in the Bible more
numerous than
nobody have you ever noticed noticed the
unnamed nobodies just in Jesus story The
Hypocrites Matthew 6 the wise men
Matthew 2 the Ser Matthew 13 the
shepherd Matthew 18 the brother Matthew
18 the king Matthew 18 the householder
Matthew 20 the man with two sons Matthew
21 the king Matthew 22 the servant
Matthew 24 the bridegroom Matthew 25 The
Traveler Matthew 25 the strong man Mark
chapter 2 the rich man Mark chapter 10
The Man journeying Mark chapter 13 the
Creditor Luke 7 the Good Samaritan Luke
chapter 10 the friend Luke 11 the rich
fool Luke 12 the wise Steward Luke 11
the guest Luke chap 14 the Builder Luke
chapter 14 the king Luke 14 the loving
father and his son Luke 15 the shrewd uh
Steward Luke chapter 16 and the snobbish
Pharisee in Luke chapter 18 aren't you
glad that's over hang on I'm just
getting started let me see if I can lay
this out before you because it's
actually shocking when you begin to
realize how few people are actually
named and how many nobodies there are in
your Bible want to look at the
Historical we're just the New Testament
now the historical unnamed nobody
characters in the New Testament alone
let me walk you through that as quick as
I can the wise men from the East that
came to Jesus Matthew Chapter 2 nobody
knows who they are the sick and the
lunatic men in Luke in Matthew chapter 4
nobody knows who they are the leper in
Matthew chapter 8 no name to attach them
the Centurion and the servant we don't
have either name we just talked about
them the certain scribe that's mentioned
in Matthew chapter 8 we don't have any
information about him the two demon
possessed men Matthew chapter 8 nothing
paed man and his forbearers Matthew
chapter n no names attached two Blind
Men in Matthew chapter 9 no name
attached the man with a withered arm in
Matthew 12 no name attached
the Deon demonic in Matthew 12 don't
know anything about him 4,000 men
Matthew chapter 15 nothing is mentioned
about any of them the lunatic in Matthew
17 the young child in Matthew 18 the
Rich Young Ruler we don't know his name
Matthew chapter 19 the Blind Men in
Matthew 20 the man who owned and asked
in Matthew 21 that they borrow to go
into the uh Jerusalem the lawyer Matthew
22 the man who had a chamber that they
stayed in for the Passover Matthew 26
the two fals Witnesses Matthew 26 the
soldier who St up Christ Matthew 27
don't know him the two thieves uh
crucified on either side of him Matthew
27 don't know who they were one who
offered the sponge Matthew 27 don't know
who he was the Saint who were raised
after his resurrection Matthew 27 don't
know any of them the centurions Matthew
27 the man with an unclean Spirit Mark
chapter 1 the maniac of the tombs in
Mark chapter 5 the Executioner of John
in Mark chapter 6 The LAD who gave gave
his lunch Mark chapter 6 the 5,000 men
we have nothing about any of those in
Mark chapter 6 the deaf and dumb man in
Mark 7 the one who cast out Devils Mark
chapter 9 the young men Mark chapter 14
and 16 the uh Shepherd in Luke Chapter 2
The W wisdom excuse me the Widow's son
in Luke chapter 7 the 70 disciples who
go on their limited commission we have
almost no names of any of those in Luke
chap 11 the questioners in Luke 12 and
13 the man who had dropy Luke 14 the 10
lepers no name at all Luke 17 the
Pharisee and the Publican Luke 18 the
nobl men in Luke 19 the unnamed
disciples Luke 24 the ruler of the feast
in John Chapter 2 The Samaritan in in
John 4 the noblemen in John 4 the infirm
men in John 5 the men born blind John
nine the Greeks that come to him in John
12 the unnamed among the 120 that are
there in Acts chapter 1 we don't know
hardly any of those people the men among
the 3,000 and obviously in Acts chapter
2 nobody's name the lame man in Acts
three the 5,000 men who come to Faith in
act four and acts 5 the unic in act 8 we
don't have his name the in Acts
14 and the Jailer in Acts 16 and that's
not everybody but at least you've got an
idea that you're not mentioned in the
bible either and your name's not there
it's okay
my faults this day he remembers being in
prison right Pharaoh about to kill him
had this dream Joseph interpreted the
dream you remember this now all right
follow with me when Pharaoh was angry
with his servant and put me in custody
in the house of the captain of the Guard
both me and the chief Butler we each had
a dream in one night he and I each of us
dreamed according to the interpretation
of his own dream now there was a young
Hebrew man with us there a servant of
the captain of the Guard and we told him
and he interpreted our Dream for us to
each man he interpreted according to his
own dream and it came to pass just as he
interpreted for us so it happened He
restored me to my office and he hanged
him then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph
and they brought him quickly out of the
dungeon and he shaved changed his
clothes and came to pharaoh and Pharaoh
said to Joseph I've had a dream and
there is no one who can interpret it but
I've heard it said of you that you
understand a dream to interpret it it
took this Butler we know nothing about
had Joseph not been there to interpret
the
dream the world would have
starved the worst famine that had ever
hit that part of the
world
simple how an unknown daughter helped
stop the slavery that was in Egypt
some of you we don't even know right
here it is Exodus 2: 5-10 then the
daughter of pharaoh we don't have her
name don't know how many daughters he
had by the way could have had a thousand
for all we know we have no idea then the
daughter of pharaoh came down to bathe
at the river and her maidens walked
among the Riverside and when she saw the
ark that is the ark that little baby
Moses was in that would have probably
been eaten by either a crocodile or a
hippo she saw the ark among the Reeds
she sent her made to get it and when she
had opened it she saw the child and
behold the baby wept so she had
compassion on him and said this is one
of the Hebrew children his sister said
to Pharaoh's daughter shall I go and
call a nurse for you from the Hebrew
women that she may nurse the child for
you and Pharaoh's daughter she caught on
to this by the way said to her go so the
maiden went and called the child's
mother smart then Pharaoh's daughter
said to her take this child away and
nurse him for me and I will give you
wages it's pretty good deal moms to get
paid to take care of your child so the
woman took the child and nursed him and
the child grew and she brought him to
Pharaoh's daughter and he became her son
so she called his name Moses
saying because I drew him out of the
water so without that there' have been
no
Moses this unnamed daughter saves the
day there had have been no Moses the
slavery wouldn't have ended the way it
did for
Israel so don't say that just to nobody
we don't know who they were it doesn't
matter actually nobody's do
matter number three how an unknown Widow
helped stop the stum of Israel Israel
was in a mess they had a problem they
couldn't give up Baal they thought you
know there's bigger country above them
more powerful more people across the
world worship Baal by far than Worship
the Lord by
far it's hard not to do what the
majority do right ain't that kind of how
you face it there's pressure on you in
first Kings 17: 8-16 this is what
happens then the word of the Lord came
him saying arise go to zerath which
belongs to siden and dwell there see I
have commanded a widow who's this Widow
who's her husband well her husband's
dead obviously who is she we never
know I've commanded a widow there to
provide for you we believe she's Jewish
more un likely but that's about as far
as we can go with that so he arose and
went to zerath and and when he came to
the gate of the city indeed a widow was
there Gathering sticks isn't that just a
happy
coincidence and he called to her and
said bring me bring me a little water in
a cup that I may drink and you going to
remember drought's going on that's
expensive
stuff and as she was going so she just
did immediately she just went ahe and
just went to get the water and as she
was going to get it and he saw she's
doing it
he called to her and said please bring
me a morsel of bread in your hand well
now that's
imposing so she said as the Lord your
God lives so obviously she believes in
the Lord she's not a Baal worshiper I do
not have bread only a handful of flour
in a bin and a little oil in a jar and
see I'm gathering a couple of sticks
that I may go in and prepare it for
myself and my son so my husband's dead
I've got a boy but I got to take care of
him that we may eat and die and Elijah
said to her do not fear go and do as you
have said but make me a small cake from
it first and bring it to me and
afterward make some for yourself and
your son now that's that's a lot to
ask in this
situation we're over a year into a
famine that's going to stretch three
years for thus says the Lord God of
Israel the bin of flour shall not be
used up nor shall the jar of oil run dry
until the day the Lord sends rain on the
earth so she went away and did according
to the word of Elijah how did she
believe
that and she and he and her household so
there must have been somebody else
involved there ate for many days the bin
of flour was not used up nor did the jar
of oil run dry according in the word of
the Lord which he spoke to Elijah the
significance of all this is this if
there hadn't been this Widow to take
care of Elijah because Elijah's uh
options had run very slim now if it
hadn't been for that he wouldn't have
survived the famine that he had prayed
for so he was saved so that he could
stand on the mount mountain with the
prophets of
ba and call down fire upon the
altar how an unknown Widow helped stop
The Stumbling that Israel was going
through he said well that didn't matter
yeah see every piece of a puzzle
actually matters even the ones you don't
know what they
represent so what we're looking at is
how
nobody's
influence Changed History how a nobody
an unknown Butler helped stop the
starvation that hit the whole world and
you you say well it didn't matter yeah
it did
matter how nobody an unknown daughter
helped stop the slavery that was going
on in
Israel to the Jews and how nobody an
unknown Widow helped stop The Stumbling
that was happening to Israel and help
them recover from that
idolatry so what that really says to me
if you listen to All I've just said so
far
is Maybe everybody's
important maybe that little nobody that
you don't think's worth
anything it's the most important person
in your
life maybe every
deed that we do is important in God's
plan even the little thing even the
little just remembering somebody oh I
know somebody
maybe every hair on your
head is
numbered
because it matters because you
matter some of you that's easy job
but but that
matters maybe every nobody is a somebody
to
him
I remember I was preaching in a town
called talasi Alabama not Tallahassee
talsi
Alabama and next to Tales is a little
town even smaller than taly but it's
right next door I mean they run into
each other it's called
Carville couldn't even remember that
until last night couldn't even remember
the name of the town so I was driving up
to Carville one time and then I came
back and I was coming back by and I
remember that in the middle of Carville
near this church there was this house
that was
horrendous it wasn't
painted it was falling apart y'all seen
them piece you know it's the old wood
look right you've seen that and there's
cars not good cars broken down cars all
in the yard you ever been to Alabama
okay
so so this was in the yard right cars
and the grass is his high right but
there's a
trail right and there's an old guy I'd
seen the old guy I knew he was what we
called a
bum I'd seen him many
times but this is what caught my eye
that day as he's walking up to his house
barely trudging
alone four or five
dogs they live there alone four or five
dogs came to greet
him and I've never seen dogs more happy
to see a
man are you sure that person doesn't
matter Ernest Gordon what a was a
Scottish P during World War II you've
you've heard the bridge over the river
qu well this is the story behind that
story it was called miracle on the river
Quai now what you might not know is when
they were building this Railway forced
labor camp by the
Japanese from Burma to
Siam uh
393 soldiers that have been prisoners
now died every mile of
that
393 died every mile of the way there
were so many I mean it so hot so many
diseases it was a jungle there was
inadequate food there were insects that
were abiding them constantly they were
exposed they were worked and worked and
worked and worked the environment alone
just going through that distance is
enough to almost kill you little less to
be uh bayoneted which happened often if
you were just seen to be lagging just a
little bit they would either Bayon at
you uh shoot you or decapitate you right
in front of all the other
prisoners prison on Prison crime
prisoner on Prison crime
escalated the men were treated like
animals and so they began to act like
animals they attacked each other at
every opportunity if they saw one fall
they never picked him up they stepped
over him they had no mercy in their eyes
for each other they couldn't care less
for each other they stole from each
other they hurt each other they would
curse at each other and that's you can't
imagine how they talked and felt toward
the Japanese who was imprisoning them
the conditions this is according to
Ernest Gordon he says as condition
steadily worsened as star starvation
exhaustion and disease took an Ever
growing toll the atmosphere in which we
lived was increasingly poisoned by
selfishness hatred and fear here we were
slipping rapidly down the scale of
degradation we live by the rule of the
jungle survival of the fittest it was a
case of I look out for myself and excuse
me to hell with everyone
else the weak were trampled the sick
were ignored and resented because he
took up space the dead were quickly
forgotten people would be crying for
help and everybody would avert HT their
eyes and their heads and not lift a
finger to help each other they felt like
they were forsaken men and they felt
like God had left them and they hated
the Japanese even worse this is all true
none of this is being made
up and then one
day they were coming back from working
because their camps were aw from where
they were building some of the works and
as they're walking back to the camp one
of them the guards recognized that a
shovel was
missing and Gordon writes this at the
end of each day the tools were collected
from the work party on one occasion a
Japanese guard shouted that a shovel was
missing and demanded to know which man
had taken it he began to rant and Rave
working himself up into a paranoid F
Fury and ordered whoever was guilty to
step forward no one moved
the Japanese soldier began to shriek all
die all
die and he cocked and aimed his rifle at
the prisoners and at that moment one man
stepped
forward the guard clubbed him to death
with his rifle while he stood silently
to
attention but when they returned to the
camp the tools were counted again
and no
shovel was
missing word spread through the
camp like
wildfire an innocent man and we don't
even know who he
was some
nobody was willing to die to save the
rest of
us many sought answers about how to
prepare for death
suddenly trying to get ready to meet
God Ernest Gordon
says unofficially he became the camp
chaplain a small church was
erected and prayer was held
nightly Faith thrives when there is no
hope but
God and God did not
disappoint the camp changed
men began to treat each other like
brothers to care and to show kindness
Gordon writes death was still with us
but we were slowly being freed from its
destructive grip we were seeing for
ourselves the sharp contrast between
forces that made for life and those that
made for death selfishness hatred Envy
jealousy greed self- Indulgence self
intelligence laziness Pride were
anti-life love heroism
self-sacrifice sympathy Mercy
integrity and creative Faith were the
essence of life turning mere existence
into living in the truest sense these
were gifts of God to men they were still
hatred but there was also love there was
death but there was also life God had
not left us he was with us calling us to
live the Divine Life in Fellowship a
jungle University sprung up artists
began to make materials musicians
actually came forward and made their own
instruments and gave
recital gardeners started tending beds
that created herbs that they could use
for medicine the crime dropped
dramatically they quit stealing from
each other or hurting each other so
complete was the
transformation that when The Liberation
came and the soldiers came in and took
over the camp for the
Allies that the skinny men that could
barely stand up stood in front of their
Japanese captors and said no
more no
more don't hurt heard anybody
else the
impact of
one
unnamed
nobody that will'll only ever
know up
there somebody tell me who that Rabbi
was and that little country that nobody
cared two cents worth about had no power
had no influence who was that little
unnamed Rabbi who walked around
preaching all of his life never wrote a
book never really knew any politicians
and then one day the Romans took him out
to a little Hillside and crucified him
who was that unnamed nobody
Rabbi he was just the one that set the
pattern that we're supposed to
follow that some unnamed
nobody and some godforsaken
Camp
followed will
you will you be the
nobody will you sacrifice or does it
have to be all about
you in you
world it's your choice
you know you can't even be a Christian
if you don't make this choice because
when you decide to be a
Christian you make this nobody Jewish
rabbi your
lord and you say I'm dying to
me that's why when you say you believe
in him and you're going to change your
heart we bury the old
guy did you bury him
would you live the life of a unnamed
nobody that gives all for everybody it's
up to you won't you come if you need to
why we standing why we s
