why do adults over
40 this applies to a few of you why do
adults over 40 stop playing hide and
seek because nobody's looking for them
anymore I know that's sad isn't
it a man signs up for a hide and
seek
Championship but on the day that it
happened he forgot all about it
it couple of weeks go by he'd forgotten
about he' even signed up and he got a
letter in the mail from the hide-and
seek Championship saying you
won
Halloween or Harvest Festival whatever
makes you
comfortable is a time where if you're
not careful somebody is hiding and will
jump out on you and scare you a lot of
that happens this time of the year you
know we have a uh or we had we don't
anymore we had someone put a Halloween
device in our
home and it was
hidden and we would hear these creepiest
weirdest sounds coming from we couldn't
figure out where in the world it was
you'd hear somebody
go I'm like what in the
world didn't know where that came from
so we finally found the source I'm not
going to tell you which of my sons hid
it
there are we not all hiding
something and some things are we not all
hiding some things about oursel you know
some hide to prevent being
rejected so they become wallf flowers
and they hope that you don't even notice
them some hide their
successes to prevent people from
expecting more from
them some hide their feares to prevent
people from expecting less from
them some hide their spiritual
lives
lest they think damnation would be for
cast over their lives by
others want to look at seven places
where I think men tend to hide from the
rest of us in answer to what have you
hidden from the rest of us and I think
one of the lessons this is not the main
lesson we'll see what the main lesson is
from this at the end but one of the
lessons is as Brothers and Sisters in
Christ need to learn to try to be a
little more open with each
other but let's look at number one
some of the things that we hide one of
the things we hide is we hide our living
and by that it's a hard word to find a
word for what we hide here by that what
I mean is just about
everything because of identity theft
many have left social media and very
careful what you do on the internet not
a bad idea criminals are lurking
everywhere
wanting to take stuff from you you're
well aware of that and you who are
getting up in years you're a heavy
Target for that don't give them your
information what do they want to know
they want to know who you are they want
to know where you live they want to know
how you live they want to know how you
spend your money they want to know what
you do in your daily activities they
want to know everything about your life
and if you're not careful social media
has already gathered pretty much
everything that can be known about
you Psalm 17:8 says hide me under the
shadow of your wings it is true that it
isn't a bad idea to keep yourself hidden
and to even ask God to hide you and to
become a
nobody Psalm 27:5 in the time of trouble
he shall hide me I think maybe you're
living your life needs to be hidden from
the world at least Psalm 31:20 says you
shall hide them in the secret places of
your presence oh I think we need to do a
little hiding from the world in fact I
kind of consider this a moment of hiding
from the world to have a moment with God
Psalm 64:2 says hide me from the secret
plots of the wicked so I recommend you
do as little on the internet that gives
out your information as you possibly can
but because there is someone out there
plotting to take everything you've
got 1st Samuel 19:2 says Saul shall seek
to kill you stay in a secret place and
hide so there's always somebody out to
harm you oh yes that's not a joke there
is somebody looking for an easy target
so we hide our living that includes our
money our life our family our details
but maybe here is a place that we don't
have to do that you can stick out your
hand and say hello my name is what's
your name number
two we hire our giving this is a good
thing to do in fact Matthew 6: 1-4 says
take heed that you do not do your
charitable Deeds before men to be seen
by them otherwise you have no reward
from your father in Heaven therefore
when you do a charitable deed do not
sound a trumpet before you as the
Hypocrites do in the synagogues in the
streets that they may have glory for men
assuredly I say to you they have their
reward all they wanted was credit but
when you do a charitable deed do not let
your left hand know what your right hand
is doing that your charitable deed may
be in secret and your father who sees in
secret will himself reward you openly we
mainly give if you notice it very
secretively and appreciate so much when
there's a special effort given by
someone that they keep that a secret and
the reason that this is important is
that we're afraid and it's appropriate
to be a little bit fearful of this L we
be judged either stingy or too
free-hearted by people who think we
should be more careful and in either
case we also don't need to receive great
credit from men but only from God so we
hide or giving but there is a sense in
which to your brethren you could let it
be known if need be but that's not to
boast number
three we hide our
praying and it's appropriate in Matthew
6: 5-15 it says and when you pray you
shall not be like the Hypocrites for
they love to pray standing in the
synagogues and on the corners of the
streets that they may be seen by men the
world assuredly I say to you that they
have their reward but you when you pray
go into your room and when you've shut
your door PR door pray to your father
who's in secret and your father who sees
in secret will reward you openly here's
the deal we're in here we've been
praying we're not hide what are we
hiding from we're hiding from the world
but here in God's presence with one
another others our Brethren can see us
but the reason you want to be careful
about out there is Les you be judged
that you are thinking you're more
spiritual than everybody else or you're
if you're not praying enough the way
they look at it they may think you too
carnal too
worldly but a lot of times what they'll
think if you're at a restaurant is a lot
of people will think you're cookie but
there's another group of people out
there who've lacked precious faith will
look at you and respect you for what
you've done so yeah hide your giving
hide your praying but not from the
people of like Precious Faith it's okay
for them to see and to know you pray
number next we hide our fasting yes we
all fast it's just some fast longer than
others but we all fast in Matthew
chapter 6 and verse 16 it says moreover
when you fast do not be like the
Hypocrites with a sad countenance of
some of you maybe just sad because
they're hungry for they disfigure their
faces that they may appear to men to be
fasting assuredly I say to you they have
the reward but you when you fast anoint
your head and wash your face so that you
do not appear to men to be fasting but
to your father in Heaven who's in the
secret place and your father who sees in
secret will reward you openly so why
would we hide fasting from the people
who aren't Believers lest we be judged
as too strict are you kind of a nut that
you would do without food just to spend
time in dedicated prayer or because some
would say you never fast because you're
a little portly whatever the case may be
you get judged by people the truth is is
that to your brothers and sisters while
you don't go around bragging about it
it's not inappropriate if we had a
communal fast if we all agreed upon a
given day that we would not eat but
spend time in prayer to God that would
not be inappropriate no more than it's
inappropriate for us to pray together so
remember it's okay to let others know
who believe that you're in the middle of
a fast in fact if you're married you
about can't do it without your husband
or your wife knowing it right number
next we hide our
meditating it's appropriate to do that
the hide our meditating because people
struggle with understanding what you're
doing Psalm 119:11 says your word I've
hidden in my heart that I might not sin
against you here's the truth you need to
spend time in this and meditating on it
it's not inappropriate for someone to
see you reading your Bible at church or
when we're together as brothers and
sisters I want tell you the world see
you reading the Bible out there and
thinking on it they're going to have
some things in their head to say in the
world we live in now Psalm 119:15 and
verse 78 say the same thing I will
meditate on your precepts sit and study
and think on what he has said to us the
simplest precept should be looked at
more closely than maybe you have simple
things like do unto others as you'd have
them do unto you simple things meditate
on on them because maybe you haven't
applied it like you think you have Psalm
11948 says I will meditate on your
statutes the Commandments of God Psalm
11948 says my eyes are awake through the
night watches well sometimes you can't
help that right you ever wake up at 12 2
3 or like some nights it's 12 1 2 3 if I
manage to go back to sleep right so wake
up what do you do my eyes are awake
through the night watches that I may
meditate on your word so when you can't
go back to sleep start thinking about
what the Bible says or pick up your
Bible and start reading it Psalm
25:14 says the secret of the Lord and
this is a really cool sentence the
secret of the Lord is with those who
fear Him that means you know things that
other folks don't know that's kind of
neat a it listen to it the secret of the
Lord is with those who fear Him and He
will show them his Covenant now I think
that's a great thing because the truth
is I study the Bible a lot yall probably
know that but I certainly have never
told you all I've learned and never
will it's not possible can't do
it then I wouldn't tell some of you
so lest we be judged to Heavenly
minded or too prideful because what we
know
it seems appropriate that we don't let
everybody know what we're meditating on
but it's okay to let your brethren know
in fact it's a a good thing so what you
hide from the world I understand maybe
you don't want to carry around a 5B
Bible but you got a phone right and
occasionally you can sit sit and read it
amen and meditate on it number next we
hide our
sinning we hide our sinning Proverbs
10:12 says love covers all sins that
included myself sins and others sins
that means what I do wrong but love also
covers what you do wrong if I'm a good
brother a good sister in the Lord and
you tell me something you've done wrong
I don't get up in front of the church
and say you know brother so and so
shared me the other day and I just won't
tell about no no we don't do that
Proverbs 7 ver9 says he who covers the
transgression seeks love so I don't run
around telling everybody what I do wrong
here because I love myself right but I
don't do that for you either so when I
know something that you've done that's
questionable I don't run around telling
that everywhere Proverbs 12:1 16 a
prudent man covers shame there are
things I've done I'm ashamed of anything
you've done you're ashamed of in fact
pretty much every week I'm ashamed what
I did wrong aren't you you said
something that I was ashamed of it I'm
not out I'm not proud of it don't turn
around and say well I deserve no shame
yes but you cover that shame a prudent
man will cover that shame and not let
everybody know Psalm 19:12 says cleanse
me from Secret faults yes we all have
them sometimes they're secret to us we
don't even know we've got them we do
things wrong you may think oh I haven't
done anything wrong this week well you
just did something wrong thinking that
you hadn't done anything wrong okay I
know that's true because I'm married you
know sometimes I think I've got it right
and then I find out I have it right
y'all never known that oh anyway I
probably shouldn't have said that my
wife's in the room but cleanse me from
Secret faults right so sometimes I don't
know but when I do know and I've kept
them a secret help me not to have so
many that no one else knows right
Proverbs 28:13 says he who covers his
sins this is the most important one he
who covers his sins will not
Prosper did you hear
that let's just let that hit you for a
minute he who covers his sins will not
Prosper but whoever confesses and
forsakes them will have mercy so what
are the steps you confess your sins God
heals you from your
sins you receive humility because you've
confessed your sins and then your
brethren not like the world your
brethren respect you for having done it
so lest we be judged so sinful we often
don't tell people what we do wrong we
avoid it we don't want to be
disrespected but here's the truth among
Brethren that when you you do confess a
sin you're respected
more number
next we hide our
failings we hide our
failings now to say you don't have
failings is a
failing Genesis 3: 7-13 the original
failing then the eyes of both of them
were open they did eat of the tree and
they knew that they were naked ain't
that interesting can you imagine people
that didn't know they were naked that's
a weird ignorance isn't it how do you
not know that maybe it'd been warm up
until then I don't know and they sew fig
leaves together and made themselves
covering so they covered it up and they
heard the sound of the Lord God Walking
In The Garden in the cool of the day and
Adam and his wife hid themselves from
the presence of the Lord God Among the
trees that you going to hide yourself
from God oh a lot of people think they
do lot of people think they're hidden
from God verse n then the Lord God
called Adam and said to him where are
you like he didn't know but he's talking
to somebody he thought didn't even know
he's naked verse 10 so he said I heard
your voice in the garden and I was
afraid because I was naked and I hid
myself it's got a apron of fig leaves
it's not very becoming verse 11 and he
said who told you that you were naked
have you eaten from the Tree of which I
commanded you that you should not eat
say suggesting there might have been
someone else around that could have told
him he's naked that knew but also he had
eaten of something he shouldn't verse 12
he's got to bring this man along verse
12 then the man said the woman it's
always her fault right
guys the woman whom you gave to be with
me she gave me of the tree and I ate and
the Lord God said to the woman turns to
the woman okay what is this that you
have done the woman said the
serpent it's always somebody else
deceived me and I ate so whether we're
talking about Adam's nakedness or
Abraham's wife that laughed or Jacob's
skin that he put on his hands to fool
his dad or from Moses putting a veil
over his face to cover the fading Glory
or from ain's loot hid in his tent
underneath everything or Saul's Pride
then he managed to hide from everybody
and make them think he was so humble
hiding in the the the stuff to David's
anointing that he kept a secret from
everybody and to Solomon's
foolishness
man hides his
FES why lest we be filled with guilt
guilt and
shame we blame and hide what we've done
wrong but to one another we should be
willing to accept this you and I are
faes so message of the
Gospel it's not good news first it's bad
news to make it good news we often hide
anything that even feels like failures
we hide our Good Deeds because it's a
failing to allow you to know
them we hide our bad Deeds because we're
afraid of what you'll think of us we
hide who we are because we don't want
others to see all of our weaknesses
because we want to be appear strong we
hide our failures because we don't think
others would ever accept us the way they
did before it seems we all want to hide
stuff that we've done wrong or where we
failed Romans 3:10 says there is none
righteous know not one Romans 3:23 all
have sinned and fallen short of the
glory of God Romans 7:15 what I hate
Paul says that I do I fail Romans 79 the
evil I will not to do that I not just do
I pray practice
it and in 1 Timothy 1:15 the easy read
version says
Sinners I'm one of those Sinners and I
am the worst of
them there's the attitude to take my
friend I'm the worst one 1 Corinthians
15:10 by the grace of God Paul says I am
what I am and his grace toward me was
not in vain but I labored more
abundantly than the all yet not I but
the grace which was with me he was
transformed by being
aware so well aware that he was a
fa so from Brethren perspective maybe
not hiding but confessing our fears make
us actually
better than
hiding Gloria Gaither and others wrote
this song you're going to recognize the
words if you could see what I once
was if you could go with
me back to where I started
from then I know you would see a miracle
of love that put me in its sweet Embrace
and made me what I am
today just an old sinner saved
by
grace maybe accepting and confessing our
failes
is what transforms us into better
people maybe being aware and being
willing to accept you fail
often makes you
stronger makes you
Kinder makes you more merciful and
quicker to show Mercy maybe it actually
makes you more
righteous
maybe acknowledging your failes makes
you even more suc successful in
life what if our hidden failes confessed
could make us into great
successes I think it's a thought worth
thinking about for just a moment let me
walk you through a few people who
failed Steve
Jobs you remember he was The Shining guy
Apple was going big guns
and then Apple fired him and he was away
for
years he left in the 90s but finally
they brought him back and he returned to
the company and by 2011 he turned the
company around and you all know it
changed the whole Computing world we now
have music on our phone we have
smartphones we have a completely
different industry iMacs iPods iPhones
iPads we have it all now all those
things here's what he said I didn't see
it then but it turned out that getting
fired from Apple was the best thing that
could have ever happened to me think
about that think about some of the worst
things that
happened JK
rolling she was at a Harvard
commencement speech you might have heard
it she talks about her failures in the
this that had become a nightmare in her
life she said I'd failed on an epic
scale an exceptionally short live
marriage had imploded and I was jobless
a lone parent and as poor and is as it
is possible to be in modern Britain
without being homeless the fears that my
parents had had for me and that I had
had for myself had both come to pass and
by every usual standard I was the
biggest failure I
knew she's a billionaire
now so maybe the failing helped Albert
Einstein I don't know if you know this
but he couldn't even speak properly
until he's 9 years
old he had a rebellious nature that was
so explosive that he was kicked out of
schools
but he says after he won the Nobel Prize
in
1921 success is failure in
progress maybe your failure can make you
into something
more Abraham Lincoln failed in business
in
1831 he serve he literally had a nervous
breakdown in
1836 he ran for president in 1856 and
lost wasn't elected president the 16th
president until 1861 and he said my
great concern for you is not whether you
have failed but whether you are content
with your
failure maybe failure changes you and
makes you
better but I like this one the best you
ever heard of this little
fell played a little basketball Once
Upon a
Time retired basketball player in a
night Nike advertisement if you didn't
see it you should see it I've missed
more than 9,000 shots in my career he's
like
me I've Lo lost almost 300 games well I
had done
that 26 times I've been trusted to take
the game-winning shot and missed I was
never trusted to take the
game I failed over and over over and
over again in my life and that is why I
succeed
so let's admit it we've all
failed we're Brethren let's not hide
that from each other let's not act like
we don't ever do wrong let's stop
getting on a high horse acting so Pious
I do nothing wrong I'm here to worship
God because I'm I'm so good and God
deserves
me let's admit we're failures in so many
different ways we've all failed if
nothing else we
failed at making our
failures drive us to success
maybe so let's let the failes do what it
needs to do God put us in this situation
I didn't Romans 8 makes this point he
put us in this
situation did he know that we would eat
of the tree yes he did where'd he put
the tree did he know that we would sin
yes he did he had a plan for Jesus all
the time throughout eternity had the
plan he knew you were going to mess up
big time you were going to embarrass
yourself in a terrible way he knew it
all along but he knew that that
could make you into a Christian and a
success in life so now if you would
listen to it you can't even obey the
gospel unless you're willing to accept
that you're a fail you see if you're not
a sinner and need of being saved then
what's the point of hearing the gospel
what's the point of believing in Jesus
Christ what's the point of confessing
Jesus as your savior and Lord what's the
point of being baptized for the
remission of sins if you never commit
any sins but if you're willing to accept
that you're a sinner in need of Grace
the gospel invitation is open for you
all us failes who are Brethren need to
quit hiding the fact and let everybody
know God saved me I failed and God saved
me
