sometimes our choices in life can come
back to embarrass
us Sandra Newman Bentley wrote an
article for reader digest back in
1994 and this is a little quote from
that she says as we were leaving the
lobby of a hotel in which we were
staying our three-year-old son looked
down at the doormat with the hotel logo
on it and said hey that's on our towels
at
home Kent inkberry told a story about he
and his wife Diana meeting with a new
couple at church one Sunday
morning here's what he said and I quote
him we stopped to introduce ourselves
and exch change pleasantries like you do
we described the friendly neighborhood
we lived in and listen sympathetically
as they lamented that theirs was just
the opposite saying our goodbyes we got
in our cars and drove home as we
approached our house we were horrified
to see that our Newfound friends were
pulling into the driveway next to ours
horrible neighbors great
neighbors I think sometimes our choices
come back to haunt us but you know
here's the
thing how do you
view your
choices you know some see the Lord God
Almighty making all the choices that he
is absolute
Sovereign he is the author he's the
Creator he's the predestin Mator he's
the captain he's the judge he is
everything he makes the choices in their
minds John Calvin said all events
whatsoever are governed by the secret
Council of God and if you're of that
persuasion there are few scriptures up
the board for you because most I'd say
of our people are probably not as much
of that persuasion that's the reason I
thought I'd put a few more verses up
there to help you understand why people
do think that
way but some see man making all the
choices they see man is the absolute
ruler of his life that he's the captain
of his own life he's the decider he's
the Chooser he's the one with the free
will he is the judge of his own life and
he determines his own
fate Invictus which was made popular
probably more than most would know by
Nelson Mandela when we were living in
South Africa uh this was made known as
his favorite poem uh he was President
back in 1994 in South Africa Invictus is
a Latin word for unconquerable or
undefeated It Was Written actually back
in
1875 by William Ernest Henley let me
read you some words because some of you
will feel this fits you perfectly out of
the night that covers me black as the
pit from pole to pole I thank whatever
God's may be for my unconquerable soul
in the fail clutch of circumstance I
have not wced nor cried aloud under the
bludgeoning of chance my head is
bloodied but
unbowed beyond this place of Wrath and
tears looms but the horror of the shade
and yet the Menace of the years finds
and shall find me
unafraid it matters not how straight the
gate how charged with punishments the
scroll I am the master of my fate I am
the captain of my soul and there are
many scriptures that seem to suggest
that you do have a choice and you decide
what happens in your life and I left
them there for you to look
at punches
pilot is given the awesome
responsibility as the fifth governor of
the Roman province of
Judea he has served since 26 27 a
and he will serve to around 36 or 37 ad
depending on how you count the years he
was known as you well know from the
reading as presiding over the trial of
Jesus and making a decision about
barabus or Jesus and that's what we're
looking at this morning what you may not
be aware is you notice how he seems to
struggle with this it almost looks like
he's trying to avoid making the decision
and that he calls him even a just man or
a righteous man his wife does the same
thing because of that what you may not
know is that there are those that
believe he became a believer in Jesus
and those that believe that are the
Ethiopian and the Coptic churches of
Africa they actually have a story of how
Pontius pilot came to Faith faith in
Jesus Christ and that even at the moment
that this is happening he was struggling
with that concept I don't know if that's
true but it is an interesting concept
behind the concept what we're looking at
I want us to look at three choices that
are involved in this text that some
think they
have and I say it that way and I'm going
to say it again some think they have a
choice
we'll
see number one the compromising Choice
some think they have in Matthew chapter
27 we'll read it again you can read it
up there now at the feast the governor
was accustomed to releasing to the
multitude one prisoner whom they wished
this was just a custom and at that time
they had a notorious prisoner called
barabus therefore when they had gathered
together
pilate said to them whom do you want me
to release to you barabus or Jesus who
is called Christ I don't know what he
thought would be the outcome of that I
have no idea at this moment except it
says in the next verse for he knew that
they had handed him over because of Envy
he knew that the leaders were envious of
the amount of people that was following
Jesus and listening to Jesus and not
listening to them verse 19 while he was
sitting on the Judgment seat his wife
sent to him saying have nothing to do
with that just man that judgment seat we
know the pavement where this actually
took place it's identified clearly to
this day you can walk there stand there
have nothing to do with that just man
for I have suffered many things today in
a dream because of him here's the truth
some think they have the choice of
pleasing an egotistical
priesthood that's what they thought that
day today what we find is that's not the
choice so much but it's similar some
think they have the choice of pleasing
their
preacher now I'm not talking about you
pleasing me I'm talking about people who
make choices about whether or not
they're going to go to church or where
they go to church Church based upon
their preachers or their leaders at
their church and not based upon whether
or not they're going to follow the Lord
and do things right or not it's May
based upon some influence someone has
over them on the other hand because the
wife got involved in this some think
they have a choice of pleasing and
anxious partner you may not be aware of
this but some of you undoubtedly are
maybe from your own experience
that there have been baptisms even among
us because the wife or the husband
pushed them to and they weren't
converted they didn't
believe it was all a choice to please a
person and get them off their back I'm
just suggesting to you that some they
have a choice and they think they have
the choice of just making my mate happy
some think they have the choice of I'm
just keeping my preacher
happy when they ask themselves what
shall I do with Jesus Christ some will
make a compromising choice
because not only they think they can but
because the choice in their opinion
doesn't really
matter the crucifixion Choice some think
they have look at verse
20 so the chief priests and elders
persuaded the multitudes that they
should ask for barabus and Destroy Jesus
as you see the priest had control they
got the crowd stirred up I don't know
how large the crowd was but they were
able to persuade them to do this I guess
out of fear of the priest and what they
might do verse 21 the governor answered
and said to them which of the two do you
want me to release to you they said
barabus went along with the priest verse
22 pilate said to them What then shall I
do with Jesus who is called Christ they
all said to him let him be crucified the
most vile thing you could do to a human
on the planet at the time nothing was
considered worse than this was
crucifixion verse 23 why would they
think that why would religious people
think that's what you should do verse 23
then the governor said why what evil has
he done notice the term he must be evil
you would not dare want to do this to a
rabbi he must be terrible why what evil
has he done they cried out all the more
saying let him be crucified don't bother
me with facts my mind's made up he needs
to go and he needs to go in the most
horrible way you see some think they
have the choice
of
crucifying one believed to be a criminal
you see there are people who consider
them so smart they think we're all
fools they're smart atheists they might
not even actually be atheist they're
kind of like the atheist that says I
don't believe in God and I don't like
him they're kind of like the agnostic
that says I really don't think there is
a God but I can't prove it but I sure
don't want want him in my life cuz he
tells you what to
do I'm just suggesting to you that if
he's a criminal and that's where they
would have to go because he's really not
that great because if he's just a man
right if he's just a man he's a liar and
he's a blasphemer that's the truth so
therefore they're right if he's not the
Son of God and he should be killed on
the other hand they think they have that
choice of crucifying some think they
have the choice of crucifying
one that is believed to be the Christ so
they'll even let it into their heads
that maybe he was the Christ but I don't
want
him are you
listening I got stuff to do in my
life I got some sinning to
do I got some fun times ahead for me
crucify him because I don't need him
right
now and you think maybe you have that
choice you see that person sees themsel
as smarter than religious folks who are
living their puritanical lives when I'm
cool and I get to do what I
want well when they ask themselves what
shall I do with Jesus Christ they make a
crucifixion choice that they think they
have and
why because he doesn't matter that much
to
me number
three the charge Choice some think they
have we're going to begin reading now
from verse
24 when pilate saw that he could not
Prevail at all but rather that a tumult
was Rising now this is again an
indication that pilate didn't really
think this was the best choice right and
he also didn't like it that the crowd
was getting this upset right because
he's the governor he's to keep things
tapped down that's his job when pilate
saw that he could not Prevail at all but
rather that a tumult was rising in other
words he didn't do anything evil why do
y'all want him killed he's trying to tap
that down
he took water and washed his hands
before the multitude saying I am
innocent of the blood of this just
person oh that if it was so
simple you see to it verse 25 and all
the people answered and said his blood
be upon us and our children what a thing
to
say verse 26 then he released barabus
two them notice that he released barabus
to this multitude I'm sure there was
hugs patting him on the back good to
have you
home Barabas and when he had scourged
Jesus H what was that necessary for why
do you need Scourge him he's already
going to crucify him is that not
enough why do you need to Scourge him
too makes it questionable to me whether
or not he believed right
when he had scourged Jesus he delivered
him to be crucified now some think that
they have the
choice their choice is pleasing their
crowd you see to them the crowd
matters their
buddies
popularity they want to be in they
really what they really live like they
live life as a
politician right you've seen the
politicians what do you know about them
they all lie about everything looks like
it doesn't it looks like it looks like
they lie about everything right I mean
you watched them enough
now well what does it say about you if
you live a political life you basically
don't tell anybody the whole
truth you kind of tell half truths to
everybody and you tell them what you
want they want to hear why because you
just want everybody to love you so you
go along with the crowd you think you
have that
right the crowd must be right it had
never been right before but let's Okay
the crowd must be
right and some think not only do they
have the choice of pleasing the crowd
but some think they have the choice of
just washing their hands of anything
they've done
wrong I'm done
oh yeah I did that but I've washed my
hands of
that I don't know if y'all remember as
an old song I must have washed my hands
in a muddy
stream tried to do what my daddy told me
but I must have washed my hands in a
muddy stream I don't think you can just
do that but there are a lot of people
who think they can they think that well
that was
yesterday and they don't think they have
to answer for their sins to
anybody they're on another page
now they're making the decisions for
their life so when they're asking
themselves when they ask themselves what
shall I do with Jesus Christ some will
make a charge choice that they think
they
have that right and
wrong is determined by how many people
think that
way is that where you're at where the
polls are that determines right and
wrong the vast majority of people what
they think all your kin folks all your
buddies think this way what about it's
right I don't care if anybody thinks
that way what about I don't care if the
United States of America doesn't agree
with me what about I don't care if the
State of Florida doesn't agree with what
about I don't care if my family doesn't
agree with me what about I don't care if
you don't agree with me what about doing
the right
thing just doing the right thing and
making the right choice whether it's
popular or unpopular it doesn't matter
but no some think it's decided to be
right and wrong by how many think that
way
see this is a funny thing because this
is what's going on all the time in life
this is the continual thing we see
people who make compromising choices
that they think they have people who
make crucifixion choices of things they
don't like like religion and they
crucify it to themselves are people who
make charge choices that they think they
have the right
because the majority of my buddies ain't
doing
it do
you do you really have the choice you
think you have let me challenge you just
a moment in John chap 19: 10 and 11
pilate says to
Jesus did you
know did you know that I have power to
crucify you and power to
I have that
power Jesus answered and said you could
have no power at all against me unless
it had been given you from above listen
to me you don't even have the power to
Choice except that God gave it to
you you don't have any
power God's got it all you just think
you got the ability it's just an
illusion
it's like the end of the world we think
all these decisions we're making are so
critical that we're the ones deciding
all these things have you ever read the
scriptures and I've left a few there for
you that there was a book written before
the world was made and it has the names
already written in the book of everybody
that's going to
heaven now you can deny right but the
book
exists and it's in heaven who makes the
decisions you have the power
really do
you it may be rather that what Jesus the
Christ is or who he
is um maybe it's about what he thinks of
us not what we think about him in
Matthew 13:41 it says the son of man
will send out his angels and they will
gather out of his kingdom all things
that offend and those who practice
lawlessness Matthew 16:27 for the son of
man will come in the glory of his father
with his angels and then he will reward
each according to his
Works Matthew 25:31 says when the son of
man comes in his glory and all all his
holy angels with him then he will sit on
the throne of his glory and all the
nations will gather before him and he
will separate one from another as a
Shepherd divides the sheep from the
goats you know that little seat that
pilate set in won't mean much then will
it just like the little seat you're
sitting in won't mean much then will
it he may turn out that all those who
choose their reputation you know cuz you
may not realize this but there a lot of
people it's all about they're cool their
reputation uh they're too intelligent to
be too religious they're too cool to be
too religious they're too powerful to be
weak like you folks they're too rich to
be too religious they're too important
to be too religious they're even too
important to even appear to be a
believer in Jesus and they would never
get in a Baptist Tre and have their hair
come out and look nappy it'll be the
thing is is that what you may think is
your serious decision there's actually
another decision and it's how he will
judge you how he will judge
me Mark 8:38 whoever is ashamed of me
and my words and this adulterous and
sinful generation of him the son of man
also will be as ashamed when he comes in
the glory of his father with his Holy
Angels you know won't this be awful the
king of the universe looks at you and
said I'm embarrassed to look at
you John 12:48 he who rejects me and
does not receive my words has that which
judges him the word that I have spoken
will judge him in the last
day there it is
there's a young
man uh at a tent meeting some of you
never been it's wonderful to go to a
tent meeting greatest thing about it is
is all the insects that are out there
with you I'll never forget being scared
to death when a giant grasshopper landed
right Square on my
nose a young man got up to tell his
story of becoming a follower of Jesus in
one of those oent meetings
and he obviously had never spoken to
public never got in front of the crowd
said anything he was not a
speaker and so because he was actually
doing a pretty bad job of I mean
stumbled everywhere as he spoke right he
never spoken like that stumbling
everywhere a guy that didn't even
believe in Jesus at the back of the tent
yelled
out
you ought to be ashamed getting up in
front of this crowd and talking like
that when you can't even
talk and the young man yelled
back you're
right I am ashamed of
myself but I'm not ashamed of
Jesus not ashamed of Jesus What then
shall I do do with Jesus which is called
Christ without shame believe in him
without shame confess him without shame
turn to him with your whole heart
without shame be baptized in his name
without shame live for
him that's what you do with Jesus and
then you'll realize it's not so much
what you did it's what Jesus is going to
do with you if you need Jesus
won't you come why we stand and why we
sing
