there are basically four main styles of
parenting and you're you have engaged if
you've been a parent you've engaged at
least one if not all of these at some
point of course parents want their style
to be the best
style uh some are authoritarian some are
authoritative the American Academy of
Pediatrics recommends that style uh but
you know I I will tell you that I think
we all kind of bleed over here and there
just as U we've all probably been more
permissive on certain things than we
should have been so permissiveness is a
way of of actually parenting and then of
course there are the parents that are
totally uninvolved that they have
nothing to do with what's going on in
the children's life those are basically
the only choices anybody has been able
to come up with and they recommend the
authoritative I
think what we read in scripture needs to
be read
closer sometimes we read something so
many times that we don't see anything
we're reading isn't that weird it's just
like when you drive down the road going
to your house sometimes you're not even
aware you're on that road little L see
anything that's on it and you're like on
autopilot going there so sometimes we
read a passage on autopilot and we don't
see anything that's in it so we we've
always been taught in the Churches of
Christ to speak where the Bible speaks
to be silent where it is silent so to
teach what God's word says exactly is
critical for us but then to teach what
God's word does not say and that's
critical too and so when we read this
passage children obey your parents and
the Lord for this is right and then
honor your father and mother there's a
couple of things you need to pay pay
attention to it that it doesn't say
because some people get confused over
this it does not say men and women obey
your
parents it doesn't say that the word
here in the Greek is techon and it
literally means children small children
particularly but children who live at
home that's who it's talking about so if
you still live with your mom and dad and
you're 25 I you may be a techon but
anyway John 9 ver2 1 says he is of age
he will speak for himself when a man
Becomes of age a woman Becomes of age
you speak for yourself your parents do
not answer for you then they don't spank
you and you do not have to do what your
parents say once you're grown and that's
important lesson because some folks feel
obligated to do whatever their mom and
daddy says no you don't have to it's
nice of you to do that but no you don't
have to and Mom and Daddy if you think
they do you're you're wrong nope that's
not right second thing in that Li is you
it does not say children obey your
parents out of the Lord so if your
parents are
heathens or your parents do not believe
in Jesus your parents trying to teach
you to do something wrong or they want
to do something abusive to you you do
not have to cooperate with that the
Bible does not compel you to if you can
it's in your best interest most of the
time but you do not have to to do what a
person that's compelling you to do
something evil such as you can't go to
church you do not have to do all that
they say to do but you may have to but
you don't have to spiritually speaking
and that's a an important lesson if
they're out of the lord it's a different
Rule and then it does not say obey your
parents than the Lord for they are right
by the way I don't care who the parent
is you've been wrong parent I've been
wrong I've been wrong about a lot of
things I taught my kidss stuff it was
not true I thought it was true I thought
I was right I was even maybe punishing
them because they weren't cooperating
but I'm not always right if you don't
believe that ask my wife I'm not always
white and and the truth is is neither
are you and sometimes you're wrong but a
child a child has to treat you as if you
are right and that's what the Lord's
calling upon you to do if you're in the
Lord those those are important lessons I
want us to identify though seven
defining meanings of what it means what
does it mean to honor your father and
mother what does that word mean what is
the scope of honoring your father and
your mother and I going to give you
seven quick definitions okay can we do
that and then we'll be done number one
honor their position honor your father
and the mother obviously means same
thing 1 Peter 2 and verse1 17 as in
honor the king I don't know if we
talking about a king let's talk about
the president I don't know Joe Biden
when he was young I thought I knew who
he was I don't know the guy really
honestly if I walked up to him I might
not even recognize him on the street I
mean if he wasn't you know surrounded by
security I wouldn't recognize it I'd
probably just be a guy on the street to
me I I don't know the guy so but if I
knew he's the president I would stand up
if I knew he as the president I'd treat
him in a certain way I'd be very
respectful to him amen that's what
should do why cuz he's got the position
the person with the position gets
treated a certain way so it may be a
distant relation to you from some
perspective if you're a child and a
family but you're still to honor them
because they have a position honor the
position of a father the position of a
mother and it's like in the military you
don't salute the individual you salute
the the rank that's the same thing so by
defining biblical parent parental honor
we should honor their position even if
you don't like them even if you don't
like them they have the position number
two honor their passion honor your
father and mother means you honor their
passion Hebrews 13:4 says this marriage
is Honorable among all and the bed
undefiled but for fornicators and
adulterers God will judge your parents
had you marriage is an honorable thing
they had you out of love believe it or
not we are all conceived out of love out
of passion that's the truth you are the
result of love not just the love of
creating you not just the love of you
being born again but you are created out
of love you were born out of love and
it's honored love the
love honorable love and so honor the
passion the love that literally made you
you wouldn't exist if it wasn't for the
passion of your mother and your father
so by defining biblical parent par
parental honor we should honor their
passion their love for the each other
that brought us into the world number
next
honor their perils honor your father and
mother means you honor their perils they
had a tough time getting you here
Philippians chapter 2: 29-30 it says
receive him therefore in the Lord with
all gladness and hold such men in esteem
why hold this particular group of men in
esteem verse 30 because for the work of
Christ he came close to death not
regarding his own life to supply what
was lacking in the service toward me
here's the deal you may not think about
it very often but it was dangerous for
you to be
born your mother risked her life for you
to be born it was dangerous life is
reckless somebody had to be out there
make it a living while that was all
going on there has been risk taken to
even allow you to be born so honor the
Peril the risk of life theis risk of
relationships that they had to go
through the risk by the way it's a risk
to enter into
marriage it's a risk of relationship
it's a risk of Health it's a risk of
work there are many risks so by defining
biblical parental honor we should honor
their perils that they risk for you to
even be here number next honor their
Provisions now honor your father and
mother involves the the idea of
provision and so you'll see that later
is it's our responsibility to take care
of them later in life but here's what
you need to see first and foremost
before that and that is they provided
for you first Thessalonians 5 verses 12
and 13 says and we urge you Brethren to
recognize those who labor among you and
are over you in the Lord and admonish
you now now he's talking about Ministry
staff and or Elders verse 13 and to
esteem them very high in love for their
work's sake and be at peace among them
here's the thing it costs to give you
what you have uh maybe it would be
interesting if we just calculated what
it uh say a child born today raised to
18 where he can leave home what do you
figure that would cost a mother and
father in America today the average cost
is 288,000
$94 so when you think you got this for
free you did not get it for free for
your parents it cost them a chunk of
money to get you where you are and 1
Timothy 5 and ver8 it says that a person
that doesn't provide for his own
especially those of his own house he's
denied the faith and he ends up being
worse than an Infidel so the very fact
that they took care of you and they
spent that you should honor the provis
Visions the your care they were you were
taken care of your food your clothing
your shelter your schooling your uh love
and especially even your fund because
they spent a lot of money on your fund
that you didn't deserve they just trying
to be nice and give you a little money
for fun so by defining biblical parental
honor we should honor their Provisions
because you've been provided for to get
you this far along you are standing on
somebody's shoulders financially you may
think you're a self-made man I got this
all on my own but most of us had Little
Help from someone before
us and then if you honor your father and
mother you're honoring their protections
that they provided Hebrews chapter 13:1
17 obey those who rule over you and be
submissive for they watch out for your
souls Isn't it nice to have Elders who
watch after your souls they're actually
keeping an eye on you seeing if you come
to church seeing what's going on in your
life they're not trying to be nosy
they're just trying to make sure you
have the best life possible but I want
to apply this in a little different way
for they watch out for your souls as
those who must give an account by the
way parents have to give an account for
how they raised you and what they did
for you as those who must give an
account let them do so with joy and not
with grief for that would be
unprofitable For You Luke 11: 21 Jesus
uses this an example about something
else but I want to use it in a different
way he said a strong man fully armed
guards his Palace his own Palace okay
you may not be aware of it but uh there
are bumps in the
night those of you who live alone there
are bumps in the night and you never
know what they are and now you may not
worried about him because mama was there
and Daddy was there and you never had to
worry about you always felt that they
were safe people and you all always felt
safe and maybe you forgot about the idea
that they actually kept you safe
protected from others we should honor
the protection where you could run home
and crawl up in their lap and cry and
they could kiss it better or whatever a
bump in the night was never really a
serious issue to you even though it
might have frightened you because you
weren't the one going to take care of it
anyway Mom and Daddy was going to take
care of it whatever had to be done don't
forget that that was their and they
stood as a wall between you and whatever
might harm might have come against you
so by defining biblical parental honor
we should honor their protection and
then
more honor their
personhood that's right honor your
father and mother believe it or not your
father and mother are a person they're
people they're a person too uh 1 Peter 2
verse 17 that I read earlier about
honoring the king it starts off honor
all all
people that includes your mom and daddy
that you don't particularly care for
right now if that's your situation or
that includes your Mo Mother and Daddy
if you've forgotten how to honor them
may not have thought about it but Romans
13:7 says render to
all honor to whom honor is
due you telling me I got to honor
everybody the bum on the street
absolutely you need to honor the I'm on
the street you're talking about the guy
who doesn't think the way I do
politically that's exactly right honor
all
people honor all but wait a second
they're Sinners they're not what they
ought to be that's right Romans 3:23
though says all have sinned so that
means you so if we're not going to honor
people who've done wrong I'm not going
to honor you you're not going to honor
me and you know what we'll end up we'll
end up at each other's throats an eye
for an eye will make us all blind will
it
not so all have sinned Matthew 7:2 says
the measure you use will be measured
back to you so if you decide I can't
honor my mother and father because
they're not the people they ought to
be that's coming home one day when you
get a little
older
so your parents are people
honor the personhood of One Like You by
the way cuz acran doesn't fall too far
from the tree it's just a person an
imperfect person a fellow sinner one who
blunders one who has regrets forgive
them give them Grace show them Mercy
love them any way be at peace with them
be patient with them treat them like you
as a person want to be treated though
you have even messed up
sometimes so by defining biblical
parental honor we should honor their
personhood regardless of what they're
like and what they believe and what they
do it's I'm
moving it's not moving oh there it is
they must have done it honor their
promise this is really a neat thing here
I don't know if you've ever paid
attention to it but it's it the way it's
written several different ways in the
scriptures kind of neat and it actually
implies three different things it says
children obey your parents and the Lord
for this is right honor your father and
mother which is the first commandment
with promise that means in the Ten
Commandments there wasn't a promise
before that there's some threats but
there were no promises but in this one
the fifth commandment there's actually a
promise attached to it and it says uh
verse three that it may be well with you
and that you may live long on the earth
so those are actually three promises
because it's recorded in Exodus 20 and
verse2 this way it says honor your
father and your mother that your days
may be long upon the land so it there's
a promised land that it was talking
about there that God gives a land you
say well that's not applic
yes it is God gives a land God gives a
place for us all to live you got a house
you live somewhere you got things he
gives you a place okay that's important
so honoring your parent has a promise
directly connected to it which is a land
a place for you to live and then
promised there's a promised length
involved this is Ephesians 6 and verse3
what it says there it says that you may
live long on the earth now that's pretty
interesting that God gives you more time
that you know you can eat right and you
can exercise every day and get run over
by a
truck this idea that you can be fit and
that's going to extend your life you
don't have any promise on that there's
no promise to that there's nothing in
the Bible says if you keep yourself
healthy you'll live longer there's no
promise to that but there is a promise
on this one you treat your mother and
your father with respect and it says you
will he will extend the amount of time
you get to live here now does that sound
good to you give up your wheedies and
treat your mom and daddy
right we wored about exercise I have so
and look how old I am
so promise you say well you could die
tomorrow that's right but how short
would have it been if I hadn't honored
my mother and father
and then the last thing is it it's the
promised life that it makes in
Deuteronomy 5: 16 where it says it this
way it says that it may be well with you
in the land which the Lord your God is
giving you what land is the Lord your
God giving you now it's not Canaan
anymore but the application for you and
me is
heaven God's eternal life and Grace and
that it's a
promise I think there's a good reason to
honor your mother and father honor them
because it's a key to your
reward that's the
implication honor the promise to all
those who tried to obey and tried to
obey because honestly we've all done a
poor job in obeying our parents who
tried to honor none of us have done a
great job with that either their parents
but because you tried to obey and tried
to honor you'll be blessed now with a
place and with a long life and with the
promise of an eternal home and eternal
life those are pretty good promises so
by defining biblical parental honor we
should honor their promise that's
connected to them
so it ain't working maybe yall can do it
so honor your father and mother these
are the seven defining things honor them
because of their position because of
their passion because of the perils to
their life to get you here because the
provisions that they gave to you because
the protections they provided because of
the person that they were just like any
other person that should be honored and
because the promises that are connected
to them in insisting though on honoring
parents let's not forget parents' role
Colossians 3: 20 and 21 children obey
your parents in all things for this is
well pleasing to the Lord that's a tough
one but verse 21 says this fathers wake
up guys fathers do not provoke your
children lest they become
discouraged parental failes plague us
they probably plague us all but they
definitely plague
me how many times I've said I wish I
was I wish I
didn't I wish I would
have we all need to learn to admit our
failings that's parents to child but
also child to
parent we all need to learn to forgive
each other's failings that is child to
parent and parent to child forgiveness
critical we all need help from the Lord
to do what we're supposed to do in the
Lord we all need Grace we all need Mercy
we all need
forgiveness from others because we do
poorly at times we have bad days you
catch me on a bad day you w't won't like
me maybe you've never had a bad
day we all need to
stop and take a long look at how we're
treating
them and then probably do some changing
would you think we probably all need to
do it uh Livingston Lauren wrote a
father forgets in the 1920s so I'm going
to read this to you but I'm going to
tell you straight up the language is
outdated it doesn't sound like
today but then again it does so let me
read it to you it's a letter that he
wrote to his
son listen son I'm saying this as you
lie asleep one little Paul crumpled
under your cheek and the blonde curls
stickly wet on your damp forehead said
I've stolen into your room alone just a
few minutes ago as I sat reading my
paper in the library stifling wave of
remorse swept over me guiltily I came to
your bedside there are things I was
thinking
son I've been cross to you I scolded you
as you were dressing for school because
you gave your face merely a dab with a
towel I took you to test for not
cleaning your shoes I called out angrily
when you threw some of your things on
the floor at breakfast I found fault too
you spill things you gulp down your food
you put your elbows on the table you
spread butter too thick on your bread
and as you started off to play and I
made for my train you turned and waved a
hand and called goodbye Daddy and I
frowned and said in reply hold your
shoulders back
then it began all over again in the late
afternoon as it came up the road I spied
you down on your knees playing marbles
there were holes in your stockings I
humiliated you before your boyfriends by
marching you ahead of me to the house
stockings were
expensive and if you had to buy them you
would be more careful imagine that son
from a
father do you remember later when I was
reading in the library how you came in
timidly with a short sort of hurt look
in your eyes when I glanced up over my
paper impatient at the interruption you
hesitated at the door what is it you
want I
snapped you said
nothing but ran across in one
tempestuous plunge and threw your arms
around my neck and kissed me and your
Small Arms tightened with an affection
that God had set blooming in your heart
which even neglect could not
wither and then you were gone pattering
up the
stairs well son it was shortly afterward
that you were gone my paper slipped from
my hands and a terrible sickening fear
came over
me what has habit been doing to me the
habit of finding fault of
reprimanding this was my reward to you
for being a boy it was not that I did
not love you it was that I expected too
much of Youth I was measuring you by the
yard stick of my own ears and there was
so much that was good and fine and true
in your character the little heart of
you was as big as the dawn itself over
the wide Hills this was shown by your
spontaneous impulse to rush in and kiss
me good night nothing else matters
tonight
son I come to your bedside in the
darkness and I've knelt there
ashamed it's a feable atonement I know
you would not understand these things if
I told you them during your walk waking
hours but
tomorrow I'll be a real
daddy I'll Chum with you and suffer when
you
suffer and laugh when you
laugh I'll bite my tongue when I'm in
impatient words come I'll keep saying as
if it were
ritual he's nothing but a boy a little
boy I am afraid I have visualize you as
a man yet as I see you now son crumpled
and weary in your cot I see that you're
still a baby yesterday you were in your
mother's arms your head on her shoulder
I've asked too
much too
much let's all admit our failings parent
to child child to parent let's all
forgive each other's failings child to
parent parent to child and let's all
fall before him because there's one
parent we really do want to rush into
his
arms doesn't that sound wonderful Rush
ing into the arms of Our Father in
Heaven who has to put down for a moment
whatever it is that everybody in the
world is asking of him and he's willing
to do it in fact he's willing to rush
into our arms and grab us if you're here
today and you've never given your life
to the Lord you know he'll run to
you if you'll turn and come to him he'll
run to you if you'll choose to believe
in Jesus and to change your heart and
confess your faith in Jesus we will
baptize you
today and he will run to you that's the
father you want honor that father and
then the one you have here and your
mother and all of you graduates
especially pay attention to that today
if you need to come though come while we
stand and while we sing
