I want to talk about teacher training
for Bible
class and um I want to talk about how
important uh Bible class teachers
are and and what we need to become in
that
process you may not believe this but I
believe you ladies who teach Bible class
are the most important teachers we have
and you may think well wait I'm teaching
in cradle roll and this is the way we go
to church go to church and you're like
that's not teaching anything why would
you say that you are the first
line not just to reach children but to
reach
parents almost this is what happens to
most people they grow up right and when
they get later teen they go off to
college and they're having fun with
their life and they're really not
focused on God they often quit church
for a time and then they get married and
they think oh yeah we used to go to
church maybe we should go to church but
they don't go and then they have a
child we need to go to church and so
they go to
church and now they've got their little
child at church and you get that
child I think what you do with those
little kids are the most important
teaching that's done at the
church so you may think I think all the
adult teachers are the most I do
not I think the ones that get the little
kids are the ones that do the big
lifting now that's not to say that I
don't think we need really good uh te
teage and adult teachers of course
that's part of what I'm talking about
tonight but I want you to think about
that as we approach the father and ask
him to send us more teachers pray with
me Holy Father we always need you father
we may not need something I'm going to
say tonight but we certainly needs you
and we need to have the best teachers we
can have for not only our own kids sake
but for the kids of those who haven't
chosen to come yet and for the young
teenagers that aren't attending yet and
for the adults that we haven't reached
yet so father we pray that you would
help us all to focus on Desiring to be a
teacher and willing to teach in our own
way at our time father we need to do it
it help us to truly be the people that
do the very best job we can so we ask
you to train us tonight in the
scriptures we just read it's in the name
of Jesus we pray
amen so what do you call a teacher who
remembers to take class
attendance but forgets to teach the
lesson of the
day
absentminded thought that that was
good y'all didn't teachers can and do
make a difference from a book called a
secret savior these are U names from
another country so I probably will not
pronounce them right this is Armenian
names harut
sasun nean from the California Courier
which is where she writes now I just
want to read it to you I think it says
everything I would like to say about why
you're so important in 1968 I was a
student at the leavon and Sophia
hagop Armenian High School in Beirut
think about where that's at 1968 Beirut
when the time came to register for 10th
grade I went to the principal's office
and told uh I was I was told to come
come to register for the 10th grade went
to the principal's office and I was told
by the staff that my parents could not
pay the tuition although I was the top
student in my class I was sent home this
was a heartbreaking experiences I love
being in school and desperately wanted
to continue my education I went home and
spent the day helping my father at his
tire repair shop he could barely earn
enough to pay the tuition of my two
siblings A Very Old Man saw me in the
shop and wondered why I was not in
school I told him I was sent home
because of a lack of funding he offered
to help by calling the principal of
another school to ask him to register me
to uh register me tuition free even
though the school was far away from my
home I could not pass up the opportunity
to continue my education I took a city
bus to downtown Beirut and went to the
principal's office embarrassed to tell
him that I was supposed to get free
tuition I told the principal that
arrangements had been made for me to
study at a discounted tuition I was
stunned when the principal screamed at
me that there was no such thing as a
discounted tuition I immediately turned
around and rushed back to my father's
tire shop three days later one of my
classmates from sopia uh haapan came
that's the high school he was at came
over our principal had sent him to tell
me that I should come back to school
when I arrived I told the registar that
I could not pay the tuition she informed
me that my tuition was fully paid and
that I should join my classmates I asked
who had paid for my tuition so I could
thank that wonderful individual I was
told that the benefactor wanted to
remain anonymous I finally learned who
my benefactor was on the condition that
I couldn't thank her for her act
I went to my classroom but I kept
wondering who had given me this golden
opportunity I went back to the
principal's office after classes and
begged the registar to disclose the name
of the benefactor upon my insistence and
on the condition that I didn't go and
thank the person and risk the registrars
getting fired for breaking
confidentiality she informed me that the
benefactor was my English teacher Olivia
Balian the Reg explained that when the
school year started and Miss Balian
noticed my desk was empty she inquired
why I was not in school she was told my
parents could not pay the tuition she
then told the principal to deduct my
tuition from her salary the whole year I
sat in Miss balan's class thinking about
her magnanimous gesture but unable to
express my appreciation a year later I
moved to the United States I eventually
received two master's degree ree one
from Columbia University and one from
Pepperdine University Pepperdine wave
the flag I never forgot the kindness and
the generosity of Miss Balian almost 40
years later I returned to Beirut for the
first time to donate 4.5 million from
Kirk Koran Lindsay Foundation to all 28
Armenian schools in lemonon among the
schools I visited was my former High
School while handing out out the to the
principal a donation of several
$100,000 I advised him to never send any
student away for lack of money because
one never knew what that student might
become in the future he or she could be
a brilliant doctor a good Diplomat or
someone who ends up working for a
billionaire benefactor who would make a
major donation to his school while in
lemonon I visited with Mrs
Balian she had retired from teaching
long ago and lived in an apartment by
herself outside Beirut she was as
thrilled to see me as I was to see her I
was finally able to thank her for her
generosity all those years ago but she
didn't want to hear about it and humbly
changed the
subject I offer to assist her in any way
possible including financial help or
special recognition for many decades of
educating young Armenians she declined
all the
offers while this story is about Mrs
Miss Olivia Balian who passed away in
2017 it is also a testimony that one
person can make a great difference in
the lives of others without her timely
assistance giving me the unique
opportunity to study English I probably
would have never come to the United
States and would not have ended up as
the publisher of an English newspaper
the California Courier I probably would
have spent the rest of my life repairing
tires at my father's shop in
Bay not a good place to be right
now you know I believe Bible class
teachers make the greatest difference
and I told this to the group the other
night my fifth and sixth grade Bible
class teacher because we only started
going when I was in the fifth grade to
bible class when I left it in the sixth
grade I was sad believe it brother Wayne
Prim who later became an elder there he
wasn't at the time made more of an
impact probably on me and it's probably
the reason I'm preaching today than
anybody has ever made just teaching the
Bible nothing fancy I want to make three
points number one every scribe and Bible
teacher must become a disciple of the
Kingdom according to the teach teaching
of
Jesus the King James says new King James
then he said to them therefore every
scribe instructed concerning the kingdom
of
heaven and then and Jesus said to them
therefore every scribe who has become a
disciple of the Kingdom of Heaven that's
New American Standard so it's a little
different but it's basically saying the
same thing a scribe or in Jewish Realms
it's a Sofer is a Jewish scholar but
he's also a student of the word who
interpreted and taught the law and I've
given you some scriptures for that but
he also transcribed that's probably what
you've always heard that he did was just
to write it down but they were teachers
of the law let me give you the
background of that Nehemiah chapter 8
now all the people gathered together as
one man in the open Square that was in
front of the Watergate
and they told Ezra The Scribe so what
does he do just write things down no
Ezra The Scribe to bring the book of the
law of Moses which the Lord had
commanded Israel so Ezra the priest
brought the law before the Assembly of
men and women and all who C could hear
with understanding on the first day of
the seventh month then he read from it
in the open Square so they of read the
scriptures to the people then he read
from it in the open Square that was in
front of the Watergate from morning
until midday that's a long time to read
before the men and women and those who
could understand and the ears of all the
people were attentive to the book of the
law so Ezra The Scribe stood on a
platform of wood which they had made for
that purpose and Ezra opened the book in
the sight of all the people for he was
standing above all the people and when
he opened it all the people stood up
kind of like we stand reading and Ezra
blessed the Lord the great God then all
the people answered amen amen while
lifting up their hands and they bowed
their heads that's where they get
lifting up their hands as you see and
they bowed their heads and worshiped the
Lord with their faces to the ground and
the Levites helped the people to
understand the law and the people stood
in their places so they read distinctly
from the book in the law of God and they
gave the sense and helped them to
understand the reading and Nehemiah who
was the governor Ezra the priest and the
Scribe and the Levites who taught the
people said to all the people this day
is Holy to the Lord your God do not
mourn or weep for all the people wept
when they heard the words of the law he
just cried to hear it to teach you must
first become a student of the kingdom
and that's all there is to it you are a
disciple which just means student you
must become a disciple a true student of
the Kingdom if you want to teach like
every scribe and Bible teacher you must
become an owner or act like an owner of
the household let me read it again and
you'll see what I mean then he said to
them therefore every scribe instructed
concerning the Kingdom of Heaven is like
a
householder in New American Standard it
says and Jesus said to them therefore
every scribe who has become a disciple
of the Kingdom of Heaven is like a head
of a household so a head of a household
or household or who owns a house or who
is responsible for the whole house is
the person that everybody looks to to
take care of all the business that's
what a teacher is to be about the
background of this is stated in a
different place in Luke 12: 41-4 6 it
says then then Peter said unto him Lord
do you speak the parable only to us or
to all people and the Lord said who then
is that faithful and wise Steward whom
his master will make ruler over his
household right so this explains about
what a person who is over a household to
give them their portion of food in due
season what they need today you don't
give them the whole Bible you give them
a portion what they need that day
blessed is that servant whom his master
will find so doing when he
comes just a morsel today a little bit
today truly I say to you that he will
make him ruler over all that he has now
there's a promise isn't it
teachers but if that servant says in his
heart my master is delaying is coming
and begins to beat the male and female
servants and eat and drink and be drunk
live like the rest of the world
46 the master of that servant will come
on a day when he is not looking for him
and then and at an hour when he's not
aware and will cut him into two and
appoint him his portion with the
unbelievers he gets to be with the
unbelievers to teach you must first
become a disciple teacher but you also
must become a steward and one who treats
what you do as if you own this
place
like you own
it do you feel that way
teachers this is
yours treat it like
that number
three every scribe and teacher Bible
teacher must become a deliverer of the
treasure new King James says again let
me read the whole thing now then he said
to them therefore every scribe
instructed concerning the Kingdom of
Heaven is like a household older who
brings out of his treasure things new
and old New American Standard says is
slightly different and Jesus said to
them therefore every scribe who has
become a disciple of the Kingdom of
Heaven it's like a head of a household
who brings out of his treasure things
new and old you bring out the treasure
what is the treasure well of course it's
the word but it's not just exactly that
if you're it is that it's more than that
it's The Treasure of your heart you feed
others out of The Treasure of your heart
and you bring out things
new and you bring out things
old what's the background of that
background of that is very old comes
from Genesis 18 Genesis 18 sets the
stage for bringing out things new and
things old in a class to feed the people
that's in front of you then the Lord
appeared to him by the tbth tree of
mammory as he was sitting in the tent
door In the Heat of the day this is
Abraham so he lifted his eyes and looked
and behold three men were standing by
him I don't know if that represents
Father Son and the Holy Spirit but they
are definitely uh representative of God
and divine Divinity and when he saw them
he ran from the tent door to meet them
and bowed himself to the ground and said
my Lord if I have now found favor in
your sight do not pass on by your
servant please let a little water be
brought wash your feet rest yourself
under the tree and I will bring a morsel
of bread I'm going to bring out of my
treasure a morsel of bread that you may
refresh your hearts after that you may
pass by in as much as you have come to
your servant they visit us we need to
deliver them what they need they said do
as you have said so Abraham hurried into
the tent to Sarah and said quickly Make
Ready three measures of f meal need it
and make cakes that is a lot of meal
that is a lot of meal well we'll come
back to that verse seven and Abraham ran
to the herd took a tender and good calf
that's a young one right and really
young one gave it to a young man and he
hastened to prepare it by the way that's
a good bit of meat even a young one
right verse eight and so he took butter
and milk and the calf which he had
prepared and set it before them and he
stood by them under the tree as they ate
it was all to feed
them so if you pay attention one thing
you would learn from this that applies
to you
teachers you prepare more than
enough if you're ready you have more
than you need On Any Given
occasion you always want to have a
little bit more even though you may
never teach it you always want to have a
little bit more because you never
know what is enough enough for this
situation was three men but of course
Abraham would eat later and Sarah would
eat later later and well actually we
find out that Abraham has 318 more
servants in Genesis 14 so all that bread
wasn't going to go waste he didn't just
do this just to give it to three guys
and that would be it he had to feed a
lot of people and he wanted well make a
really nice meal and so he was going to
feed but he made sure he had more than
enough but here's the really interesting
thing he brought out something new and
tender and good calf and he brought out
something old bread and cakes with
butter and
milk now to teach you must be someone
who is a disciple
obviously you must be in a teacher but
you also need to behave like you are the
houseold owner because it matters to
you but you also must deliver the
treasure the treasure that's within you
you must become a baker of the treasures
that God has given
you that's the lesson tonight that's a
really something simple lesson it's not
that fancy but it is important if you
want to be a
teacher now I want to shift gears a
little bit here Gus Nichols was my
preacher you've heard me tell that most
of you don't even know who that was Gus
Nichols at one point one of the most
well-known preachers in the
Brotherhood and what was the advantage
being at his church wasn't that the hour
to hour and 15 hour and 20 minute or two
hour long lessons
and y'all think I preach
long he averaged an
hour but I have had him preach I have
heard a three-hour
sermon yeah it was different
then but he knew everybody in the church
so he knew all the great preachers in
the
Brotherhood and so because he knew all
the preachers in the Brotherhood and
they all knew him we often had guest
speakers not just good guest speakers
the best the Brotherhood had we had the
best of the best of the best of every
flavor you could imagine we had them for
gospel meetings but we just had them on
Sunday sometimes just Sunday morning
Sunday night he would have a guy come in
names that you would know that are on
books across the Brotherhood so I got to
hear the best and many nights after a
gospel meeting well I don't know someone
like mid mcnight maybe you would know
that name I'd be outside as a kid 9 10
11 12
13 wanting to be a
preacher and in tears aware of the
magnitude of what I just
heard I was changed forever for all that
teaching so yes try to be the best Bible
class teacher you can
be but there's something more than just
being a great
teacher and something
else that takes it from being good to
being
great the greatest teacher of all had it
I think these guys that I got to hear I
think they had
it I'm not sure have it all the time or
anything like that I'm not sure our
teachers have it all the time but I
would like us to try for
it what Jesus had was one ingredient
that made all the difference John 15:12
he said it himself this is my Covenant
that you love one another as I have
loved you he loved the people he was
teaching Eric Butterworth once told
about a college professor who had a
sociological class Sociology class um in
Baltimore they decided to do a study
well he decided to do a study and have
his class to it in the slums of
Baltimore and he wanted to do a case
history of the young boys that lived in
Baltimore so they went into the slums
and they were to do a history on 1200
young boys living in Baltimore the
students were asked to
evaluations of these young men and what
they thought their future could be
because they were living in the slums
how how's their future going to turn out
and almost every student after it was
finished after they did this study made
some comments similar to this that young
man has
got no chance to be a
success but 25 years later another
sociological or sociology
professor in that area came across the
earlier
study and so he thought it would be
interesting to follow up on that study
to see if that their conclusions were
right so he had all of his students go
out and find out whether or not those
200 boys were still alive what they were
doing could we find who they are where
they live 20 of them they could not find
they were either dead or they had moved
away nobody knew where they
were 180 of them were found and of the
18076 now listen to me out of
18076 had become
successful lawyers doctors
businessman wait a second y'all remember
what they said said was going to happen
to them they come out of the
slums 176 out of 180 kids out of the
slums of Baltimore were very
successful the professor was astounded
the students were astounded they thought
well maybe it's inaccurate so they tried
to figure out what happened so they went
back and talked to the people what
happened what made the difference and
after they talked to the men here's
what they would ask how do you account
for your success given where you were
raised and in each case the reply came
back this little
sentence there was this
teacher the teacher was still
alive so they sought her
out and they asked the elderly lady
but she was still very
alert what magic
formula did you use to pull these boys
out of the slums into successful
achievement to be doctors and lawyers
and businessmen seeing where they came
from the teacher's eyes
sparkled and she smiled big she says
it's really very simple
I love those
boys the teacher saw possibilities in
them that no one else saw I'm
sure but that
love that love
transcends loving the kids you
teach nothing can beat
it if you love them enough they begin to
believe in
themselves if you love them enough they
believe you love
them if you love them enough they
believe even greater things like they
believe in Jesus and they believe in God
and they believe God loves them
too so tell them show them that you love
them people that's the ingredient that
takes you from a really really good
Bible teacher
to a great Bible
teacher I want to say
something you guys know
me I'm not very
gooey I probably hurt your feelings more
than any other preacher you
know I don't flatter I won't
flatter and I don't say many things that
maybe I should say to encourage you but
maybe you need to hear
it 27 years
later I love you
guys always
will but that's
insignificant to the fact that God loves
you and we need to make sure that our
kids and our adults learn that God loves
you and no matter what you've done he'll
take you
back no matter what you done he'll take
you you can repent of your sins confess
the name of Christ and be baptized let's
convey the love if you need to come
though come while we stand and while we
sing
