there are a lot of things about being a
couple that you almost just have to
laugh about because it's kind of funny
marriage is kind of a funny thing uh
arguing with your mate is kind of like
reading the terms of use on the internet
you ever read those terms of use on the
internet you start reading it and
finally you just give up and say I agree
what's the point of arguing with your
mate right I I agree whatever you say if
your mate ever catches you yawning when
when you are arguing I have a little
piece of advice for you if she catches
you or he catches you yawning and starts
complaining what you yanning I'm talking
and you just need to simply answer back
well I thought it was my turn to say
something
uh if your wife keeps telling you that
women uh use twice as many words as
their husband uh and you might say well
that sounds like you're bragging or
something uh likely she will answer back
it's because I have to keep repeating
myself to you
sir to be
heard you know it's funny being married
marriage is kind of a funny thing
um hey but you know when we
argue I make sure that I always get the
last word in don't you guys I always get
the last word in I'm sorry you're
right it's a funny thing marriage is a
funny thing thing uh when I
ask um which she likes when she fell in
love with
me was it my face or my body that she
loved her answer is it was your sense of
humor marriage is a funny thing my wife
likes to get her steps in y know these
watches and he get your steps in she's
all the time worried about that so she
takes theep stairs and I tend to take
the elevator I guess we were just raised
differently that's true isin't it
Mel if you can't get him to do a job
ladies if you can't get your husband to
do something around the house there is a
way to get him to do it okay all you
have to do is one sentence and he will
start doing that job you just simply say
I think you're too old to try
that marriage is a funny thing from the
very beginning it's an interesting
concept isn't it two people to make the
world not one
two here's the thing you need to get
though and that is and it's not commonly
known on the world today
it's the work of the devil to always
Advocate the opposite of whatever God
says whatever it is that he says the
devil and therefore the world Advocates
the opposite so when somebody says well
y'all aren't mainstream thought we never
could be we cannot be it's impossible to
be mainstream thought it is the work of
the devil to Advocate the opposite and
therefore the worldly in John 4:44 it
says the devil was a murderer from the
beginning and does not stand in the
truth because there is no truth in him
when he speaks a lie he speaks from his
own resources for he is a liar and the
father of it I not slandering the devil
I'm quoting the Bible he is a liar and
the father of it in 2 Thessalonians 2: 9
and 10 it says he it's the working of
Satan and what is the working of Satan
with all unrighteous deception so it's
not just deception but is an unrighteous
deception that we should expect from the
world and from the worldly around
us such as Revelation 12 and: 9 the
devil and Satan who deceives the world
Revelation 20 Satan will go out to
deceive the Nations Revelation 20110 the
devil who deceived them was cast like
the fire and the first deception That's
essential is to not believe there is a
devil so if you don't believe there is a
devil you're already
deceived and then if you don't believe
there a god you're double deceived
you've been de deed and his work has
been done on your heart so you're not
Superior in intellect to the rest of us
here who believe in the devil you're the
one that's been deceived so as a
Christian as a Christian who's in a
couple because that's the way God
originally designed this world to begin
are we not to Advocate with God am I not
to agree with God stand with God
Proclaim What God Says to the world
around us in fact not only am I do to do
that the world needs me to do it they
don't think they need me to do it they
don't even want to hear me do that or
you do that but that is my duty so let's
look at God's initial word what was his
initial word to us as a man as a woman
and see the duties of a believing couple
to the world okay that's all we're going
to do today it's very simple lesson but
it's not one that's received very well
number that went the too far there we go
number one the world needs believing
couples to be righteous listen to
Genesis 1:26 don't just read over
passages look at them closely then God
said let us make man in our image
according to our
likeness to be like God is to be
Godlike or to be
Godly or to be like him and be right or
to be
righteous or to be holy that's what man
and woman that believe in God who are
trying to be a Christian couple must do
does the world need that the world needs
that worse now than it is ever needed it
for us to be righteous the devil
Advocates that the worldly and the world
does not need you to be righteous and so
that's what you hear and that's the
reason they are anti-ri righteous they
mock people who try to be righteous oh
you're just
self-righteous but it is what you need
to be they mock the world mocks and is
against religion they are anti-
righteous
and they're anti-
religiosity and therefore they are anti-
God they are anti- his creation they are
anti his Bible that's what you will hear
from the world and the worldly but they
should hear righteousness coming out of
us and they should see it within us
Richard Dawkins who is an atheist bi
biology Professor thinks that quote
parents forcing their religion on
children is a form of mental child
abuse that's abusive within itself to
even say that that's how far off he is
no matter how big he thinks his brain is
Neil de grass Tyson an astrophysicist
and an author he's uh basically an
agnostic or an A atheistic agnostic he
said this and I'm going to change his
quote he said this recently
the good thing about science is that it
is true whether or not you believe it
believe in it well that's not always
true and so let me say a true statement
the good thing about the Bible is that
it's true whether or not you believe in
it it's still true now that's definitely
true John Adams in support of the idea
that in America really in America we
need you to be righteous this country
doesn't function without it listen to
what he said our constitution was made
only for a moral and religious people it
is wholly inadequate to the government
of any other the less righteous this
country is the worse this one becomes in
fact America without righteousness is
the most dangerous country on the planet
so God's word taught from the very
beginning that the world needs believing
couples to be righteous the world needs
you to strive to be right why because
you understand what righteousness is the
world doesn't they need you to be
religious the world doesn't understand
that concept the world needs you to not
just believe in God but believe in his
creation believe in his creation story
even if it doesn't sound like it works
with the with the science you've read
you still need it because they need you
to believe in it they need you to
believe in his Bible
because they don't and if you don't
they're sunk we need to do that for them
number
two this thing will click there we go
the world needs believing couples to be
responsible listen to what the next
thing is the Lord said this is from the
very beginning now not only do you need
to be like God and be righteous but it
says verse 26 let them have Dei dominion
over the fish of the sea over the birds
of the air over the cattle over the
Earth all the Earth and over every
creeping thing that creeps on the earth
you know what that means you're
responsible for all
this you hear me the whole thing if this
goes bad we we're guilty it's it's it's
our
responsibility the devil wants to
Advocate and so the worldly bonds into
it that the world doesn't need
responsibility isn't that an interesting
thing responsibility is almost a bad
thing that's the reason that the worldly
are so Pro
drinking just drink as much as you want
whether it's Bud Light or whatever drink
as much as you want more than that it's
Pro doping it's just for you taking as
many drugs as you possibly put into your
body and some of you fallen for it some
of you falling for the drinking thing
some of you falling for the doping thing
and they're Pro it's Pro fornicating in
fact the very idea now in our society to
say that you shouldn't have sex before
you get married is considered so idiot
you're an idiot almost if you do that I
mean they' they've been so ugly about it
folks what you need and what the world
needs you to do is simply be responsible
you can be responsible in all of this
stuff you can be responsible God's word
talk
and the world needs believing couples to
be responsible the world needs you to be
responsible in drink in drugs in sex in
driving whatever you engage in you're
responsible whether or not you know it
or not so you need to act
responsibly the whole world is dependent
upon you number
next the world needs believing couples
to be
relational this is a critical point
still in from the very beginning this is
what God set up Genesis 1:27 so God
created man in his own image in the
image of God he created him male and
female he created them
them there was to be a them a
relationship the devil advocates that
the world doesn't need relationships in
fact we almost see a world who wants to
be isolated some of us are on our cell
phone 24/7 and we live in that little
bubble you don't even recognize a person
that's sitting right next to you
sometimes you need to get off of that
thing you need a relationship with the
people around you listen to me I'm not
advocating giving up your cell phone I
know y'all Stone me at Daybreak but the
devil Advocates the world world doesn't
need
relationships it's be getting more and
more clear that they are anti-marriage
not just that they want you to live
together and maybe never get married but
they're wanting that off the books why
do you think there's so much mixture of
the idea of all you can be married to a
dog or whatever that it's to confuse the
whole situation and eliminate it
entirely they are an anti-marriage they
are anti- families they are anti here's
the big one they are anti- tolerance of
other people's opinions on those
subjects so the world needs us to be
relational to be PR marriage to be pro-
family and to be tolerant of their
opinions they can think whatever they
want that's we're not going to stop them
from that but they may try to stop us so
God's word taught that the world need
means believing couples that's supposed
to be us right man or woman whichever
one you are to be relational this idea
living Often by yourself and never
having contact not appropriate not
appropriate number
next and this is critical here the world
needs believing couples to be
relentless to be
relentless I love that word in Genesis
genis
1:28 then God blessed them and God said
to them here it is first responsibility
you got now he's saying be fruitful what
does that mean accomplish
more be relentless about it do more be
fruitful don't just get by be fruitful
be
relentlessly fruitful do more work
harder that's what the idea is be
fruitful any body can slip by you say
well I'm fruitful my tree produce fruit
out in the yard that's not fruitful
that's not Relentless the devil
Advocates that the world doesn't need
Relentless workers you don't believe
that walk with me just a moment here
just think about where our world is
right now it's become
anti-work it's become PR
laziness it's become anti-
career it's become Pro cafeteria of work
I choose this I choose that I don't want
to do that I don't want to do that so if
you're asked to do something at work
that's too hard you just
quit the worldly are becoming anti-off
you don't believe that go down to
Hillsboro County offices ain't nobody
there amen walls I've been there there
ain't nobody there there that building
is a billion dollar building and ain't
nobody in that building if there's a
hundred people in that building on
Monday morning I'm shocked there's
nobody there and that's what your
dollars are paying for them to stay home
but my point is is that the whole world
has got to the point it don't want to go
to the office it don't want to work
anymore they're anti that we of all
people are not to be that type people
the world needs us to be relentless
workers people of careers people of jobs
people of doing what we're supposed to
be doing being
fruitful wouldn't you rather be dead
than to be lazy I'd rather be dead than
to be lazy
amen I just heard that did you hear that
roaring
amen I hope it didn't wake you up number
next this will hit you wrong the world
needs believing couples to be
reproductive I do know what's going on
right now but folks this is becoming an
enemy of Faith listen to Genesis 1:28
and multiply so be fruitful and multiply
get out there and be relentless do your
job and then multiply have children have
children that's a command do you hear me
that's a command from God this is not a
suggestion it is a command from God you
know the devil Advocates the world
doesn't need
reproduction we're already overpopulated
if will s Tell You Folks that's a
lie and I'm going to prove it to you
it's a lie the worldly are anti-child
birth now if you don't believe that look
at how many abortions that are happening
no matter what we do it's still
happening the worldly are anti-
population growth they're Pro population
control the worldly are anti- child
rearing tactics so therefore they're
anti-s
spanking they're Pro
CPS that take your child away from you
if they catch you doing something they
don't approve of not because it's really
damaged the child but because they don't
approve of it and they ain't got any
sense about this kind of stuff and if
you think this is something new if you
think oh but we know now the world is
too full of people do you understand
that 57% of the land of the Earth right
now nobody lives on it 25% of it nobody
lives on it and it's not a hard place to
live that's
25% 57% is a bigger number but that's
some it includes the Himalayan Mountains
and it includes the you know the deserts
of the world but at least 25% one
quarter of the earth nobody lives on
it and it's nice place to live oh but we
can't do it let me tell you how old this
is 160 ad tulan listen to what he said
there were 190 million people on the
planet at the time what most this is his
quote what most frequently meets our
view and occasions complaint is our
teeming population our numbers are
burdensome to the world which can hardly
support us in very deed pestilence and
famine and wars and earthquakes have to
be regarded as a remedy for Nations as
the means of PR pruning the luxurian of
the human race how long had that been
around well let's go back that was 160
ad let's go back Plato said the same
thing Aristotle said the same thing
confusus said the same thing that's the
fourth and the sixth BC folks the world
wasn't overpopulated then it's not
overpopulated
now H rustling who's done enormous work
in this I encourage you to go watch his
YouTube and you will see he proves not
me I'm not going to do it he proves The
World Isn't overpopulated and it's going
to reach 11 billion and then it's going
to top out in fact we may be in trouble
but I'll get back to that the Swedish
phys physician he it basically in TED
Talks he he has a lesson if you want to
look it up why the world population
won't exceed 11 billion Jordan Peterson
talks to this point some of you know who
he is says the idea of overpopulation
kicked in in the 1960s there were by the
way he was wrong about that there were
dire predictions for the year 2000
remember all of that maybe yall don't
remember because you didn't live back
then those were absolutely wrong what
happened was that everyone got way
richer and the bottom section of the
population got lifted up out of poverty
there's going to be a terrible s
shortage of young people there is
nothing more implicitly uh ter uh
genocidal than the idea that the planet
has too many people on it I've seen
people shaming others out of having
children it's
unbelievable listen to me very clearly
the reason it looks like the population
is growing is because of good health
practices that are spreading all over
the world and older people are living we
used to all die all of us men would be
dead by 40 to 50 years old from a heart
attack that's not happening anymore some
of you hanging around till you're 150
and you need to go on and be with Jesus
but
anyway Pros science is you say Rex
you're just not being pro science no
you're not being pro science you haven't
actually looked at it the population is
not a problem it biblically God says
keep spreading that's why God said but
we've gotten smarter than God apparently
Elon Musk you ever heard of him he's
that rocket guy that blew up something
the other day he said we need to watch
out for population colle collapse some
people think that the world has too many
humans but that's just because they live
in a city all humans on Earth could fit
into the city of New York on one floor
it's not exactly a secret low birth
rates and population collapse are a big
risk this is not a good way to end a lot
of people just think that having kids is
somehow bad for the environment I want
to be clear it's not it's essential for
maintaining civilization we don't necess
necessarily need to grow dramatically
but at least let's gradually not dwindle
away you need to have more than two
children not just one if you can have
three and I recommend since we're
Christians we are to have a house full
thank you Jeff and so God's word taught
the world and the world needs believing
couples to be the most reproductive that
you could afford go for it
Ben Blackman okay number
next the world needs believing couples
to be residential Genesis 1:28 F the
Earth that's our respon and it's not
full I just told you 57% is not lived on
but 25% has nobody on it on the Earth
right now 25% that's livable nobody
lives there so don't tell me it's full
let's fill it that's what God wants us
to do I'm guessing he wants us to be
like that thing in Star Wars and then be
a city all over the planet well we can't
sustain that folks we'll sustain
whatever God wants us to do we're our
job is to fill the Earth the devil
Advocates that the world doesn't need
residential
sprawl a come on give me a break the
worldly are
way the world are anti Florida growth
except they love to make money off of
it the world needs us to be a part of
the sprawl
growth the removal of a lot of trees is
fine we have more trees in America than
we've ever had in the history it wasn't
that this treed when we got here way
back in the 1600s it didn't have this
many trees but nobody tells you that we
got way more trees we've ever had so I'm
just saying we need to do what God says
that's all I'm saying we need to do what
God stop believing you're the smart one
or that I'm the smart one just read what
he said and do what he said God's
word the world needs to believe that
Christians are for residential
sprawl number last
you may not know this word the world
means believing couples to be
regnant now regnant
means currently having the greatest
influence we're supposed to be the
people of influence not the people being
told what to
do genesis 1:28 says subdue
it have dominion over the fish of the
sea over the birds of the air and over
every living thing that moves on the
earth if there ever was a group of
people that's supposed to be listened to
it's you
guys the devil Advocates the world
doesn't need the influence of someone
like us we aren't to be regnant we're
not to be people of influence the
worldly are pro equity and anti your
strong opinions so we're all every
opinion is equal it shouldn't be like
that our opinion is worth more than
theirs that's the truth not to stop them
but you have information they don't have
the worldly are pro equality but they
don't want you doing better here's the
truth if you're really living a
Christian life you're living a better
life than they are and they need to hear
that and the worldly are pro poverty
almost and anti someone actually
accomplishing and dominating and
resolving which is what we're supposed
to be about so the world needs us to
have the greatest possible influence we
can not for us it's not for us it's his
influence but we have it within us and
we're to share it so that's where we are
this is the lesson today it's really a
simple lesson see the duties of a
believing couple or a man or a woman
from the very beginning this was God's
plan he wants us as believing couples in
a world that's anti- God to be righteous
just live it to be responsible don't do
foolish things to be relational we're
supposed to be able to get along with
each other don't come to church and
stir
hello some of you need to hear
that got a lip on you a tongue and you
wag it when you come to church like
we're all supposed to kneel to you you
need to be relational amen you got to
get along with everybody amen
reproductive some of y'all have been
advocating I believe one bring children
in this world you need to get over
that residential and by the way if I
knew that grandkids were as good as they
are I'd have skipped right over my
children and gone straight to
them and then be regnant and influence
influence don't let them make you quiet
influence too often Christian couples
are not
aware that our purpose is not just to
survive this world from the beginning we
were to infuse
it to make it a better place believer
couples have a purpose Beyond being a
couple we are to show the world the
message of the church and of Christ to
show the world the message of what the
world needs to function properly are
people who believe and serve the
Lord I'm not a golf player I played and
I quit when I finally scored 72 on nine
holes
and one of
G's Immortal moments came in America
when a Scotsman a long time ago
demonstrated this new game came in
America to President ulyses
Grant so the Scotsman teed up the ball
and took a mighty
swing the balls still laying there but
dirt went everywhere all over the
presidentof dirt went everywhere all
over the president the people standing
around but the ball is still sitting
there six times he
swung finally the President says
you know
um there seems to be a fair amount of
exercise in this game but I have not
figured out what the purpose of the ball
is there seems to be a lot of exercise
in man and
woman but if you don't figure out what
the purpose is you're just
exercising we have a message to bring to
this world it is our duty it's not a
joke and whether or not you like this
lesson or not you need to get on the
ball you are responsible as a man you
are responsible as a woman to bring
these messages to them because they're
listening to the devil and it's
destroying the world around us our
purpose is not just to display a fair
amount of exercise our purpose is to hit
the ball to teach the truth that are
often missed righteousness matters
responsibility matters relationship
matters being relentless about your work
matters reproduce it matters be
residential quit letting people say
that's a horrible thing and be regnant
influence the people around you don't
just let them talk you speak too so the
unmarried may be sitting there going
well that's not for me you're a man or
you're a woman it applies to you
unmarried have the same goal to teach
the same thing might be harder cuz you
don't have help but it's still the same
job harder still though it is hardest of
all to teach what the world needs if you
ain't living
it if you're not
righteous it's hard to teach it amen
it's hard to teach it so you need to
begin where you need to begin repent of
your sins confess Christ be baptized if
you haven't done that
that's where you need to begin we invite
you to do it but even if you've done all
that I invite you to go back and read
the instructions from the beginning and
start a new God bless you come if you
need to Why Don't We Stand why don't we
sit
