you know body image is
real so is Magic okay no I'm just
kidding about that body image is real
you know what you think about the way
you look really matters uh if your shirt
won't fit into a washing
machine uh if your yellow raincoat makes
people think a Taxi's coming if your
scales at the end say to be continued
it's serious it's real we do have issues
that's the truth body image is a big
worry and because it is a big worry and
you may say oh I don't worry about it
but you do a little bit you tidied
yourself up this morning right Tred to
look your best you could so it it
because it is a worry it's big business
your physical body uh during summer
months as the as the beach time
approaches you worry a lot more about it
than you do in August your mental body
uh during Harsh Times you have to deal
with grief and with stress and that's a
serious issue with you your spiritual
body that is the part that houses if you
will your soul and your Holy Spirit your
spiritual body that we are now a part of
this body this body of Believers uh
which is known as a church now there's
reasons given in this uh uh in life for
what we see happening let me see if is
this moving this doesn't work okay well
then maybe that's not as great as I
thought okay so five reasons that you
may have a body image issue uh they've
been put together by a group called
Mighty Pursuit team basically they say
that
90% of both men and women Express
dissatisfaction with their body I would
probably say that probably tilts toward
women a little more because we think
about the way they look more than we
think about the way men look more than
likely plastic surgery industry is now
valued at around $50 billion doll a year
in the United States weight loss
industry in the United States is hitting
about $72 billion doar a year personal
care and beauty that is makeup and the
like hair and the like is
$558 billion a year here in the United
States you could almost balance the
budget with those kind of things
couldn't you and then of course there's
been studies done and in those studies
they found that about one in three
people report that they have a high
concern for their body image some of you
sitting here maybe you wouldn't want to
admit it but worry a great deal about
the way you look and it's a constant
thing and in the reason for that there's
things like advertising TV and film
there's music social media media does it
and of course your smartphone that
people are taking selfies all the time
and worried about the way they look
there's secrets to cultivating positive
body image uh a lady named Fiona Walters
says that mirror mirror on the wall you
don't get to make the call of who I am
or how I see the beauty inside and out
of me I think that's probably the way we
should be but it's not so easy to always
practice it so what we should do is try
to practice noticing the positive I mean
there's enough negative always if you
want to just focus on that you can but
then of course you might have some
positives maybe you need to focus on
that maybe try to wear clothes that fit
uh uh take control of your social media
feed and maybe don't post stuff don't
post a picture of you everywhere and
then maybe change your mindset one of
the best little tools I've seen if you
have a negative mindset about anything
whether it's your marriage or whatever
the newest thing I've run into is called
six-pack and it's got nothing to do with
your stomach gentlemen it is a way of
looking at things I recommend it to you
look it up see what I'm talking about it
could revolutionize the way you think
about yourself and then forgive yourself
you know uh you ate that piece of pie
it's okay forgive yourself uh members of
the
church are members of the one body of
Christ and it it's it's it's a metaphor
the body is a metaphor Ephesians 1:22
and 23 says the church which is his body
Colossians 1:24 says his body which is
the church right so it's definitely the
metaphor he's Chosen and then I can list
a number of scripture uh look at there I
don't know how this is happening but uh
if you'll go a little
further a little further oh there we are
then you begin to read
scripture we we uh being many are one
body in Christ we though many are one
bread and one body as the body is one
and has many members but all the members
of that one body being many are one body
so also as Christ for by one Spirit we
were all baptized in one one body you
get the emphasis on one body go again
there are many members yet one body
reconcile them both to God in one body
there is one body and you were called in
one body so I mean that is the teaching
of the New Testament if you had
questions about it before I started on
that point you know it's true so the
Body Matters and we're all members of
that one body now remember how we feel
about the way our personal body
looks now transfer that since we as
Believers are members of the one body
the image of that one body body should
be important to
us I mean yours is you can say it
doesn't matter to me but you fixed
yourself up this morning matters a
little bit right brushed your teeth
calmed your hair gargled whatever you
did through the world that we are
seeking to save acts
2:47 it matters because we want the
world to see the best of the church and
praise God for what we're doing so
here's the lesson what's so different
about this
body that would attract anybody to it
remember attraction right what would
attract anybody to this body and that's
what I want to deal with today this
body's image what image do you have of
this church and what might be a
different image you should s remember I
said sometimes all you need to about
your personal body is change your
attitude right so sometimes what we need
to do is change our attitude and our
perspective on this body right so I want
to look through about seven thoughts
here the first one you see already up
there our body image is different
because our worship is different we do
not have a worship service like most of
the denominations out there and you if
you're new to us you're going why didn't
we have a piano up here a minute ago
Hebrews 7 let me go through so you
understand the logic behind what we do
and maybe I don't explain it enough but
let me explain it a little bit Hebrews 7
verse4 makes the argument that I'm going
to basically make so it is a Biblical
argument it says for it is evident that
our Lord arose from Judah so he's a
descendant of Judah of which the uh the
tribe Moses spoke nothing concerning the
priesthood and yet we say Jesus is our
high priest how could Jesus be our high
priest when nothing is sp now that's not
the point I'm trying to make right now
I'm simply saying that he makes an
argument for a lack of content on that
subject that's what we make an argument
about
Moses I must say that if you go out in
the world most the churches out there
are following what we call the normative
principle you look that up try to
understand it the normative principle
basically says this whatever is not
forbidden is authorized or allowed
that's that's the normative principle
whatever is not absolutely forbidden is
authorized or allowed we pretty much
follow that in our
daytoday but we do not follow that as a
church here most churches follow that at
church services in worship if it isn't
absolutely forbidden they think they can
do it during the worship service and
often do we don't we follow a worship
using What's called the regulatory
principle we did not invent it it has
been around for hundreds of years it has
been accepted as the leading and number
one rule for many years until modern
people decided throw that out the window
we want to do what we want to do but the
regulat principle basically says this
about worship whatever is not
specifically authorized for worship is
forbidden now that's very different from
the normative principle the normative
principle says whatever isn't forbidden
is authorized this says whatever is not
authorized is
forbidden so we try to apply that to
worship because this is the Divine B
being who has killed people who didn't
follow that rule he's put people to
death through the scriptures who didn't
follow that rule so we try to follow
that so what you will see is we try to
have communion every first day of the
week because it's in the Bible Acts 20
verse 7 we take communion every first
day of the week but you won't see a band
up
here because not that they are bad
things in evil things but it isn't a
part of what's taught in the New
Testament you won't see a choir that
leads this service you won't see
instruments of music and you won't see
me as a woman up here that's not going
to happen and the reason is very simple
John 4:24 we try to worship the father
in spirit and Truth according to the
scriptures and as Hebrews 8 verse5
according to the pattern that we have
found in the scriptures so everything we
do during the worship service we try to
do according to that pattern outside the
worship service we pretty much follow
the normative pattern like everybody
else we go to football games and
everything but we don't invite that sort
of thing in here during worship so as a
reverent worshiping Church our worship
is to some degree different than what
you will see out there
but we're not ashamed of
it number
next our body image is different because
our leadership is different we kind of
follow a different model than you find
often out there in Matthew 23: 8-12 it
says this but you do not be called
Rabbi you this why would that be a
problem for one is your teacher the
Christ and you are all Brethren do not
call anyone on Earth your father for one
is your father he who is in heaven and
do not be called teachers for one is
your teacher the Christ but he who is
greatest among you shall be your servant
and whoever exalts himself shall be
humbled and he who humbles himself will
be exalted that's Matthew 23
8-12 see most
churches today kind to follow a
dynamic Ministry they tend to follow a
dynamic Pastor they tend to follow kind
of a rock star kind of guy and like a
CEO and there's a big name and people
almost go to hear the big name over
actually going to worship God we follow
a leadership concept of a
noname Ministry no no name servants no
name
Shepherds some of you wouldn't be able
to name all of our elders right now and
you've been a member here for some years
servants deacons are known as servants
but the elders are servants basically
they are biblically qualified based upon
1 Timothy
31-13 but there're no names mentioned of
the elders follow me in the New
Testament we have no name of any Elder
mentioned in the New Testament so we
follow that kind of no-name principle
but 1 Timothy 3 1 through3 they
shouldn't be novices they must be the
husband of one wife they they and
deacons must not be double tonged a
double tongue Deacon is one who talks
bad about the elders behind their back
because they didn't do it the way the
deacons know it ought to be done get a
message on that deacons if there is
anybody of that Spirit here so as a
nobody leader ship Church our
leadership's kind of different because
I'm certainly not a rock star well some
of you probably think I am I know keeg
can think so Mar number
three our body image is different
because our discipleship is different
listen to Matthew chapter 10 we kind of
have a different view here Matthew
chapter 10 24-2 says a disciple is not
above his teacher nor a servant above
his master now you're all disciples of
Christ you're certainly not above Jesus
verse 25 it is enough for a disciple
that he be like his teacher and a
servant like his master we're certainly
not above Jesus right but listen to the
rest of this if they have called The
Master of the House be
elub how much more will they call those
of his
household now most churches kind of
follow a teaching that tends to judge
other
churches and other churches are judged
harshly not declaring judgment on other
churches should be our method it may not
have been for you you may have thought
that was the smartest thing to do but
maybe that isn't the smartest thing to
do as a disciple because you see the
focus should be on us the bad guy we're
to be the bad guy because we're going to
be like Jesus and Jesus was treated like
a bad guy so follow the discipleship of
Jesus that means you'll be treated
harshly you'll be called demon names
said to have had a demon be called
campbellites there have been people who
said about us oh y'all trying to build a
mega
church that's a joke I've been called a
Ultra conservative and I've been called
an ultra liberal
put the shoes on and I have often been
said to be an enemy of foundation
Christian Academy and there is nothing
further from the truth on that
one hear it well those you may have
thought that I have thought to save that
thing but there you
go it's okay Luke 6 and verse 22 suggest
yes that we must bless those who hate
you then we
must understand that they're going to
try to separate from you they're going
to reproach you they will cast your name
out as evil guess what you're supposed
to do take
it take it just let them do it so as a
judge
discipleship
churches our discipleship is different
we're not looking for everybody to
believe I'm a good
guy it's not that important I want you
to believe Jesus is a good guy and you
may think anything of me but I'm trying
to help you understand we're just trying
to be disciples number next our body
image is different because our
stewardship is different yes our
stewardship is different Colossians 1:25
says I became a minister according to
the stewardship from God which was given
to me for you to fulfill the word of God
we have a stewardship from God now most
churches follow the idea to compete now
you may not realize this but to compete
like a business with other churches to
get the most pokes in from other
churches I do not believe that's a
Biblical model and I don't think that's
a Christian way of thinking about it we
follow the stewardship of teaching
basically the church culture from the
scriptures we teach the Paradox of the
Cross love to talk to you more about
that that's not what this lesson's about
but how the cross actually works love to
talk to you about that we try the best
we can to reach out in new ways we
especially this building is all about
that to try to reach because many of the
methods that churches have used
throughout history are now being blocked
off to us for example gospel meetings
are almost gone revivals almost gone
radio Christian radio Christian TV
programs almost evaporated you virtually
can't get on the air printed tracks
nobody reads them anymore Bible
correspondence courses I haven't seen
anybody do one of those in years mail
outs nobody reads it throws it in the
trash doorto door canvasing that's
illegal in some neighborhoods are all
gone so what do we focus us on we focus
not on money but on Soul second
Corinthians 8: 1-5 we need to be those
who urge to allow us to be a part of
whatever it takes to reach the people
around us to help us to minister to the
Saints and to give ourselves to that
process so as our church culture reaches
uh stewardship Church our stewardship is
pretty different in many respects number
next our body image is different because
our fellowship is different now that may
not mean what you think it means so stay
with me just a second Galatians Chapter
2 and verse 9 says this when James
sephus that's Peter when James sephus
and John who seemed to be pillars
perceived the grace that had been given
to me they gave me and Barnabas the
right hand of Fellowship that we should
go to the Gentiles and they to the
circumcised it seems that most churches
today follow a focus on more people to
believe the way they believe and to
indoctrinate them into it now you may
think that's what we do but that's not
really what we do or it isn't what we
should do we follow a fellowship focused
on literally an
opportunistic Outreach for Jesus every
Church can't do what we're doing every
Church of Christ can't even do it every
Church couldn't even try they'll have to
go their way we'll have to go ours still
though we consider them in Fellowship
even if they don't consider us in
Fellowship we think they're in
Fellowship that's different it's Mark 9:
38-40 forbid him
not because those that aren't against us
is on our part
that's actually in your Bible right if
you ain't directly trying to undo you
you ought to be for what he's trying to
do at least to some
degree that's not a popular thing among
churches even some Churches of Christ so
as a Focus opportunistic Church
fellowshipping group our fellowship is
different we're trying to be kind to all
which brings me to the next
one our body image is different because
our ambassadorship is different second
Corinthians 5:20 says this now then we
are ambassadors for Christ you ever ever
known an ambassador you probably haven't
most ambassadors make a lot of money and
live in another
country now we are ambassadors for
Christ as though God were pleading
through us we implore you on Christ's
behalf to be reconciled to God now most
churches in our culture
today focus and follow kind of a
political platform have you noticed
they've gotten very political out there
they wanted to debate the culture censor
people even exclude people to them what
matters is your political stance on
particularly the the letters
lgbtq America is one of 100 95 countries
in the world if you've been outside it
it's probably a good thing you learn
something everybody matters I don't know
if you realize this but there are
Christians in all 195 countries of the
world we don't follow that we follow an
ambassadorship we've been given an
ambassadorship our goal is not to make
war with the
World our goal is to not stand on
political
platforms not interested in debates or
censoring or excluding our culture we
welcome all to come and hear the
teachings of Jesus ambassadors if you
understand what they're supposed to do
are designed to stop Wars not start them
to bring peace between people who are at
odds with each other politically
speaking revelation 22
verse 17 might be a message for you it
says and easy to read anyone who is
thirsty anyone who's thirsty
anyone who's thirsty should
come just
come so you're welcome here no matter
who you are as a community and and and
just really doesn't matter what your
political stance is you're welcome
here and anybody who thinks that that's
not correct I'll be happy to have a
debate with you afterwards because
that's probably what you
want but that isn't appropriate
either our body
finally our body image is different
because our workmanship is different
Ephesians chapter 2 verse 10 we are his
workmanship I'm not my workmanship
you're not your workmanship we are his
workmanship creat in Christ Jesus so
that's something he designed us for for
what for good works which God prepared
beforehand that we should walk in them
so now most churches do pretty much kind
of what we do here and that is they
focus on missions work projects
benevolence we follow pretty much about
the same kind of thing a workmanship of
serving the community the world through
projects we are not doing as many of
those as we have done in the past we
hope to do more benevolence haven't done
as much of that here recently as we hope
to do more missions we want to do much
more of that part of the reason that
some of this is happening is that we're
not doing as much is the cost of these
buildings charity events we want to do
more Community joy events we want to do
more of that to create a place that will
enhance our chances of just speaking a
word for Jesus acts 17:17 we want to do
it in our work worship spaces as he did
in the synagogues and we also want to do
it in the marketplace as they did in the
marketplace so as a community uh
workmanship matters to us as a church
and our workmanship is different okay
that's the summary if you want to go to
the next slide that's the summary if you
miss something being different is
good but it's not
everything the point of all that would
to be different it sounds like that was
the point it it sounds like that was my
goal today to tell you we just need to
be
weird no because being different or
being weird is not necessarily the thing
you want I mean I'd say Lady Gaga is
different the truth about a and and I'll
I mention her for a reason you'll get
back to her the truth about a church
body image though still needs to be
spoken so the truth about what we're
basically about needs to be
said uh but buildings are good folks but
they are not what makes the church great
this building has not made us great and
it will not make us great I I am for
this Family Life Center this event
center building I am for it I am for the
next building that we're about to build
the offices which have benevolence in it
and women's ministry building I'm all
for that building being built I'm for
the auditorium they'll sit right over
here they'll also house theater and
coffee bar and baptism Fountain I'm all
for that we don't actually have a
full-time baptistry as you notice I'm
all for that I'm I'm for the next
building that fourth building out there
which will have Nursery preschool
Elementary Middle School High School
adult education it'll it is so full of
Bible classes we've never had that many
there it's a quiet approach which means
you're able to assemble in the center
and then go to your classes it has a
potential of a preschool declair that
could feed into FCA buildings are great
I'm I'm all for that I'm all for the
outside I think we're going to have this
field out in front of us that the
community can see I think the
amphitheater behind us which we'll
probably have uh I think the playgrounds
which we'll probably have where the kids
will be playing on them we we got about
three or four planned around here it's
going to cost a lot of money but all
those are external things
they don't make a great
church programs are
good but they don't make a great church
oh some people believe they do but they
don't I'm all for outreach I am thrilled
that we're going into friends speak I
think that's a great thing we're talking
about visitation Ministry I'm all for
that mission trips that's a wonderful
thing I'm all for it Bible counts
awesome thing I'm all for it prospective
members classes I'm all for it back to
the Bible I am for it
I'm telling you straight up our websites
are a great thing live streaming is a
wonderful thing those of you are
watching at home I'm thrill we're able
to provide that but those are just
external actions and programs they don't
make a great
church so what is it that makes a great
church the stuff I talked about earlier
these things no it's a
mindset it's the soul of the church
church it's the spirit of the church
it's the atmosphere it's the attitudes
it's the
friendliness is the LJ PP K
GFS if you want some
letters that's what makes a great church
LJ p p k g
FS GF GS hm what in a world that about
love joy peace patience kindness
goodness faithfulness gentleness and
self-control and to have that you got to
do the
hbb
L you got to hear believe repent confess
and be
baptized it's a mindset Lady Gaga I told
you get back to her I think she can sing
the the paint off the wall she can
sing in 2012 she was speaking to a group
at a high school student Long Island New
York and said to the high school
girls she had struggled with
bulimia y'all know what that is here's
what she
said I used to throw up excuse me for
that term sorry I used to throw up all
the time in high school so I'm not that
confident weight is still a
struggle every video I'm in every
magazine cover they stretch you they
make you perfect it's not real life I'm
going to say this about girls the
dieting has got to stop girls everyone
just knock it off because at the end of
the day it's affecting kids your age
and it's making girls
sick what she's really saying is it's
about what goes on on the
inside not what goes on on the outside
that really
matters
right so I think that works for a
church so I've talked about kind of
where we want to always
be but really comes down to
attitude that's what it's really about
so as a body of
Believers let's try to have the heart
that a good church maybe even a great
church requires amen the right heart but
in the meantime when you're talking
about it don't talk down about it
imagine imagine that you walk out to
everybody and say hey
guys notice my
stomach the next thing that's all you
need to see about me
right you didn't notice before till I
said it
right folks listen to me real
carefully it doesn't just matter who we
are it matters what you say about who we
are as matters what you
support not just doctrinally but how you
speak about a thing just like you're
married to somebody right you talk bad
about the way they
look that's really not a healthy thing
to do is
it let's do the best we can be the
person on the inside we can be and be
positive about the outside we are the
one body of Christ if you want to be a
part of it hear the gospel believe it
repent of your sins confess the name of
Christ be back baptized live it those
are actually letters you could follow it
if you wish here's your opportunity come
forward now while we stand while we
s
