again today we're continuing our study
of the fruit of the spirit and we're on
kindness today I'm very mindful of a
couple of things one is that our mission
teams that are in Honduras and the like
and still doing work there we need to be
mindful of them they risk themselves
believe it or not to do this sort of
thing uh they don't have quite all the
things that we have here so we need to
be in prayer for them and Lord willing
we are to have a baptism today and the
way we operate right now on baptisms
because we have to do it kind of odd as
y'all know those of you who are here
we'll have it after Sunday school so if
you're able to stay and observe that
that is the plan today uh there may be
others you never know but that is the
plan today we're looking at today uh
kindness as I said before we go any
further if you would let's ask God's
blessings pray with me
Holy
Father we need you to give us the spirit
of
kindness I know sometimes we act like we
think we know and we think we are all
that and more kind to everyone but
father you are
kind help us to be
kind uh through your predestined plans
this was meant to be for us all along
let us be kind father even if others are
not kind to us father help us to be kind
even if others dislike us father help us
to be kind even if others are unkind and
hateful to us help us to be kind father
even if they cast us out and don't want
to have anything to do with us help us
to be kind to them even if they were to
call us demons help us to be kind to
them let's be kind father help us to be
kind and we pray father that today
sincerely we will seek to be kind
through the power of your spirit it's in
the name of Jesus we ask these things
amen kindness is one of the most
misconstrued and probably least taught
spiritual fruit
and kindness is hard to
teach and it's harder to
demonstrate someone was in a line at my
favorite restaurant can y'all guess what
that
is McDonald's that's
it McDonald's is not cheap anymore have
y'all noticed it's kind of
expensive I don't know what happened
there must be using real meat now but
uh
so this this long line at McDonald's
right and the man that was there had a
apparently a lady right behind him in
this long line and apparently he wasn't
moving quite fast enough taking the
order and giving his order and so the
lady behind him sat down on her horn and
beat quite rude but that's okay he
didn't do anything he just kept pulling
along in the line finally at the first
window y'all know there's two windows
y'all been to McDonald's so the first
window he said can I pay for the lady
behind me he's been honking at me and
sure you can do that so he paid for the
lady behind him that's been honking at
him because in his mind he wanted to
really teach her a lesson about what
kindness is and not to be rude I think
that's wonderful and so he paid for hers
and then he moved on up and she
obviously uh when it came her turn at
the window she was aware he'd paid so
she stuck her head out the window and
you could tell she said thank you mouth
it you know and waved at him and you
know she probably must have felt bad
about being unkind and rude not that any
of us would ever do something like that
but so the man got to the window where
his food order was and he showed his
ticket of his food order and then he
showed the ticket for the lady behind
and and he took both
orders and his goal was to teach her
what kindness and what rudess was
because now she discovered what kindness
is her bill being paid for and rudness
is you got to go back around
lady kindness It's hard to demonstrate
isn't it because it's always in a moment
of a bit of rudess or conflict kindness
is not only hard to teach because it's
hard to demonstrate but it's hard to
teach because it's kind of hard to
Define there was this uh lady older lady
on a
bus and she's downtown she's riding
along and uh all of a sudden she went up
to the bus driver and she handed him a
handful of
peanuts well the bus driver well that's
nice but she he's like you know I'm
driving but it's an old lady okay so he
took the handful of peanuts and grateful
thank you and he began to munch on the
peanuts about 5 minutes passed little
lady made her way back to the bus driver
and handed him another handful of
peanuts
and okay I'm driving the bus but okay
and heats handful of peanuts and
another five minutes pass and she makes
her way back up to the bus driver and
hands him a handful of peanuts and
finally the man says well you know I
really want to thank you uh but really
Ma'am why don't you eat your peanuts and
she said well you see I don't have any
teeth and and I can't chew them he said
well why did you buy them in the first
place said oh I love that chocolate
outside tastes so good
good kindness is hard to Define and hard
to
demonstrate what felt like
kindness kindness is often
misunderstood and it's misdefined as
being clever even y'all ever heard of
Jeff Bezos I think that's why you say
his name CEO of Amazon y'all ever heard
of
Amazon you got boxes at your house
Amazon when when he was 10 he loved math
he's a big math nerd he says when he was
10 years old he just really love math
and so one day on TV y most of y'all
won't realize this because there had
been any cigarette commercials in years
on television but back when he was 10
there were still cigarette commercials
on television and there was a commercial
and came up about anti-smoking back in
the day they had the anti-smoking
commercials and so on this one anti
smoking commercial it said every puff a
smoker
takes on one cigarette shortens his or
her life by two
minutes every puff two minutes you love
shorter life so he being kind of a
mathematician and knowing his
grandmother smoke he began to do the
math and so he was thrilled he walked
over to his grandmother and he said
Grand mother I've just been doing the
math and based upon how long you've been
smoking you've lost 16 years of your
life and his grandmother began to
cry and when he announced that his
grandfather came and took him CU he he's
watching her cry and he's
mystified and he takes the boy aside
he's expecting he's going to get a
spanking or something but his
grandfather didn't spank
him or do anything like that he simply
said to
him you'll learn one day that it's much
harder to be kind than it is to be
clever so kindness and cleverness often
don't go
together it's difficult isn't it it's
difficult to demonstrate it it's
difficult to Define it and it's
difficult difficult to not be clever
isn't
it those of you who know how to be
clever you know everyone talks about
kindness but few have actually thought
about what would be the definition of it
Philip Keller says that kindness
involves finding ways to brighten and
cheer somebody
else step Winward said that it's
sympathy
generosity and benevolence it's not just
saying nice
things Webster's Dictionary says it's a
sympathetic forbearing gentle Pleasant
nature that's a mouthful isn't it the
Hebrew word just said it it means to
treat courteously and appropriately it's
loving kindness in fact you virtually
can't separate the word love from
kindness the Greek word
it means to be useful to be pleasant to
be gracious to be serviceable to someone
to be good to someone to be filled with
goodness excellence and
uprightness those are
definitions but living it out is a
different thing isn't it I want to give
you nine that's right nine if you got
your outlines you'll see I've got nine
definitions to help you so at the end of
the day today you'll know what it is
that doesn't make you'll do it and it
doesn't keep you from trying to be
clever here we go number
one
defining the Divinity of kindness yes
you see what I'm trying to suggest to
you in this one is that we're not
kind we're not Divine we have to seek to
be kind because God is kind there is
kindness is the Lord himself Isaiah 54:
8-10 it says this with a little wrath I
hid my face from you for a moment but
with ever lasting
kindness I will have mercy on
you says the Lord your Redeemer for this
is like the Waters of Noah to me for as
I have sworn
that the Waters of Noah would no longer
cover the Earth you remember that we
have the rainbow in the sky right so
have I sworn that I would not be angry
with you nor rebuke you what do you mean
they didn't sin anymore no no
no this is him toward us and toward
Israel verse 10 for the mountains shall
disappear and the hills be removed but
my kindness shall not depart from you
nor shall my Covenant of peace be remove
says the Lord who has mercy on you folks
we're not like that it's a Divine
characteristic secondly as you'll see up
there kindness is not just the Lord It's
the spirit Galatians 5:22 for the fruit
of the spirit is love joy peace
longsuffering kindness so it Liv
literally is a quality of the holy
spirit it's a quality of the Lord God
the father of us all it's a quality of
the Holy Spirit the divine nature and
it's a quality of our savior the savior
of us all Titus 3: 4 and 5 says this but
when the kindness and the love of our
savior God our savior toward man
appeared when did it appear when did the
kindness of the father appear in the
form of Jesus himself verse 5 not by
works of righteousness which we have
done we didn't earn anything but
according to his Mercy he saved us
through the washing of regeneration and
renewing of the Holy Spirit God's
kindness poured out into a little baby
who became a man and died on the cross
Jesus literally is the kindness of God
so it's a Divine quality the Divinity of
kindness is the Lord himself the spirit
and the savior of us
all that's a big thing to try to follow
isn't
it number two we want to define the
descriptions of kindness how is it
described in the scriptures kindness is
described as
love 1 Corinthians 13:4 love suffers
long and is kind first thing it says it
is is it is kind love does not envy does
not parade itself is not puffed up but
love is
kind and kindness is not only love but
kindness is Grace or graciousness
Ephesians chapter 2: 7 and8 says that in
the ages to come he might show the
exceeding riches of his grace how do you
show the exceeding Riches of his grace
forever more when we get to heaven how
will God demonstrate I mean we're
already in heaven we're already there
we've got it made in the shade we're
there how will he demonstrate the
exceeding Riches of his grace here's
that it says
it the riches of his grace in his
kindness
toward us in Christ Jesus for by Grace
you've been saved through faith and that
not of yourself it is the gift of God
every day in heaven is a Kind
day and then kindness is
Mercy in Colossians 3: 12 and 13 it says
it this way therefore as the elect of
God holy and beloved put on tender Mercy
mercies kindness as if those are the
same thing Tender Mercies kindness
humility meekness longsuffering and then
it explains that bearing with one
another you see if you can just put up
with the people around you put up with
them is the way we say it it says
bearing with one another so when you put
up with something that was not nice you
were being being kind when you zipped
it you were being kind when you didn't
react now other people saw that as
weakness okay let just tell you straight
up people think kind people are weak but
it is it takes more strength than you
can
imagine
to zip
it bearing with one another and then
beyond that and forgiving one another
not only dealing with it by allowing the
other person to be nasty and you not be
nasty back but by literally forgiving
them if anyone has a complaint against
another even as Christ forgave you so
you also must do how many times have I
been forgiven right how many times you
been forgiven with the Lord is it an
infinite number it almost seems
yet that is what kindness is it is Mercy
so that that's the definition if you
will and a description of kindness by
describing it so the description of
kindness is in found in love and grace
and
mercy
finally let's define it by the
dispersements of kindness where do you
actually see it happen where is it
supposed to happen where are we supposed
to demonstrate it kindness is first and
foremost neighborly our neighbors the
people of this world the people in
traffic the people in front of you in
the line or behind you in the line the
people you deal with in the world the
people you deal with at church that you
don't know whether they're in the world
or not the people you deal with
Ephesians chapter 4 beginning of verse
25 puts it this way therefore putting
away lying so we shouldn't
lie Let each one of you speak truth with
his neighbor neighbor tell them the
truth don't lie to people about anything
amen oh that was a big amen for we are
members of one another be angry and do
not sin you are going to get angry but
don't do something
ugly don't you're going to get angry you
shouldn't but you're going
to don't do something ugly do not let
the sun go down on your wrath and don't
stay angry
nor give place to the devil don't allow
the devil a place in your life that you
don't intend to take back over for the
Lord let him who stole steal no longer
but rather let him labor working with
his hands what is good that he may have
something to give him who has need so
not only don't steal give it's very
opposite of stealing is giving
right let no corrupt word proceed out of
your mouth so this is what we're
supposed to be doing for our neighbors
listen to me now this is what we do for
our neighbors we don't lie to them we
don't steal from them we give help to
them but what is good for necess
necessary edification let that it may
impart grace to the hearer we need to be
gracious in our words and do not grieve
the holy spirit of God by whom you were
sealed for the day of redemption don't
make God mad at you let all bitterness
wrath anger clamor and evil speaking be
put away from you with all malice and
here's the summary of all that that just
said and be
kind to one another tenderhearted
forgiving one another just as God and
Christ forgave you be
kind so instead of being mean with your
words to the neighbors around you be
kind with your words he parks on your
grass it's okay to be truthful but don't
be
nasty and then kindness is not only
neighborly kindness is brotherly here we
are brothers and sisters amen we're all
brothers and sisters here right all
right first second Peter chapter 1: 7 to
Godliness we should add brotherly
kindness and to brotherly kindness love
there's not a whole lot of difference
between all that is there brotherly
kindness is a demonstration of Love
Romans 12 verse 10 puts it this way be
kindly affectionate to one another with
Brotherly Love in honor giving
preference to one another so not only
should we show each other brotherly love
that's an act of
kindness but we should show each other
brotherly affection there ought to be a
Feeling of affection when you walk in
this building amen do you you know what
I mean that feeling I'm with my people
amen the ones that I really just love
being
around that's kindness when you express
that you say well I thought it was when
somebody did something bad to you no no
no that's not the limitation of kindness
kindness is just being sweet to your
brother and express it hey brother it's
good to see you amen that's kindness why
because you just made them feel good
amen you just when somebody says it's
good to see you does it make you feel
bad makes you feel good doesn't
it right it's an act of kindness finally
kindness is Ministry we're all called to
Ministry by the way every one of us are
Ministers of Christ that's the
scriptures I don't know if you realize
that we're all Kings and Priests we're
all Ministers of God I don't preach on
that a whole lot but I ain't your
minister I'm a minister you're ministers
we're all ministers and we're all called
a Ministry that is to minister to the
people around us and the World At Large
that's what we're called to do minister
to them and when we minister to people
that is serve them that's the word
meaning of the word when we serve other
people we are literally showing kindness
when we
serve 2 Corinthians 6: 4-6 but but in
all things we commend ourselves as
Ministers of God so he's including them
in that we commend ourselves as
Ministers of God in much patience and
tribulations in needs and distresses and
stripes and imprisonments and tumults in
labor in sleeplessness in fasting by
Purity by knowledge by longsuffering and
here it goes by
kindness there it is that's how we do it
we're kind that's a Ministry your
ministry to this world is to be kind to
them your ministry to your brethren is
to be kind to them your ministry to your
neighbor is to be kind to them that yes
it means when they're nasty be nice back
and TR but be truthful with them but be
nice back but it means more than that it
means be kind to people just because you
want to be kind you want to make them
feel good when you see them you want to
give them the best thing they can
possibly have you want to be kind to
your mate this is going to be your best
day ever today I'm going to try to make
this day great for you
kindness so that's the whole lesson
summary of it and that is it's
divine it's
described and love grace and
mercy and it disperses itself in Acts
that we can nail down what we do for our
neighbor what we do for our brother and
what we do for everybody because we are
called to minister we're not called to
be
nasty kindness is hard to Define hard to
teach and harder to demonstrate I
believe but kindness is worth everything
it cost
you to demonstrate it to others can I
tell you a
story then the lesson will be
yours one day
a teacher this is a true story one day a
teacher asked her students to list the
names of the other students in the room
with them on two sheets of
paper and after they got through doing
that he said leave a space in between
each name so there two sheets of paper
everybody's names on it space in between
each
name then she said what I want you to do
is I want you to think of the nicest
thing that you could say
about each person each classmate you
have and write it down just write down
if you could say the nicest thing the
kindest remark you could make about that
person what would you say about them in
one or two words or whatever keep it
simple well that was Friday they handed
them
in and uh she took them home home that
Saturday as teachers often do work on
Saturday to get their classes all caught
up she took all of that and she wrote
down the names of all the students and
each one got their own sheet their name
at the top of the page and everything
their classmates had said nice about
them on that sheet of
paper that's an interesting idea isn't
it so literally everybody in the
classroom had a sheet and on that sheet
was all the nice things all of their
classmates said about them and then on
Monday she gave each student their
list and before long everybody in the
class was smiling it was nice it was
sweet is gracious and you could hear
hear people around the room saying
really I never knew that I meant
anything to
anyone I didn't know others like me that
much you hear people saying
it but then no ever mentioned it again
that was gone that was a one day thing
wasn't brought up ever again the kids
went on graduated went off to
life this is back during the Vietnam
conflict it wasn't a war
obviously yeah right it's during the
conflict one one of the students named
Mark got
killed when he was
killed they had a funeral back home
brought his body
back and the teacher because it had been
one of his student her students went to
the funeral and there's a line to go see
Mark the old way of doing it not the way
we're doing it now but the old way when
you march past the the body and
everybody took a look she made sure she
was the last person in the
line and she went
by and after she'd seen Mark and after
the funeral was
over she noticed she noticed that there
was quite a few of the classmates of
Mark at the funeral but you know that's
just the way it is hardly anybody spoke
to her but basically Mark's mother and
father came over to her and said we're
going to have a reception at our house
we're going to eat there would you
please come it'd mean a lot to us so she
went she went to the house when they
were
there she kind of noticed everybody
there just about was the other students
that they had graduated
with any rate the father called the
teacher
over and said uh if you got a minute we
want to show you
something and he took this piece of
paper out of his
wallet and you could tell it had been
folded and unfolded many times and had
been taped
together said we found this on Mark when
he was
killed thought you might
recognize it was just torn pieces of
paper now barely holding
together teacher knew what it was
without thinking
obviously all the good things classmates
of Mark thought of
Mark the dad said thank you so much for
doing that Mark's mother said as you can
see Mark treasured it to keep it with
him at all
times Mark's former classmates began to
form a circle around them Charlie smiled
rather sheepishly said I still have my
list it's in the top drawer on my desk
at
home Chuck's wife said Chuck asked me to
put his in our wedding album and that's
where it
is Marilyn said I have mine too it's in
my
diary Vicky another classmate said hold
on she opened her pocket
book and took out her
wallet and showed this worn
frazzled
list and she said I carry this with me
at all
times and then Vicki added without
batting an ey she
said I think we all saved our
list that's when the teacher sat down
and began to
cry
how
important is it to be
kind just a
word a
kind
word can we all try to demonstrate the
spirit of
kindness I pray that we will I know that
we may think it's beyond us at times but
it's not it's one word away it's one
kind deed it's one
forgiveness if you're here today you
need to understand that God is
kind we talked about it a while ago he
died in your
stead is there a greater act of
kindness you can't even begin to follow
unless you have the spirit I just you
just can't do it on an Earthly thing but
if you will repent of your sins confess
the name of Christ and be baptized his
holy spirit will come within you it'll
help you you might actually learn to be
kind and if you've wandered away from
kindness come back let's be kind find a
kind word if you need to come come while
we stand while we say
