you know everyone is a good example some
are just a good bad example but everyone
is an example you're an example of
something there are many ways that we
can be an example as a disciple of
Christ that you might forget you forget
that that example is happening such as
observing God and giving thanks at a
time like Thanksgiving where we're
actually set an example to the world
around us and to our family and to our
friends remembering that we owe it all
back to the father also going to church
is huge it's important to be at church
for the sake of our family our friends
our fellow Christians it is critical
that we go to Sunday school it may not
seem that important to you you may not
realize how important it is for you to
go into a Bible class after this service
is over you may be tempted to leave
don't leave because it is critical for
your children and for your fellow
Christians to see you wanting to study
the Bible not wanting to rush out and go
do something that's frivilous in many
ways but rather focusing on what really
matters and that is educating yourself
and becoming a stronger and more
dedicated Christian it is critical to
your example that you be honest and
responsible in your daily walk it is
critical to your fellow workers wherever
you work they need to see that you're
absolutely honest that you would never
steal a dime from any of your companies
that you work for that you want them to
succeed that you want to work hard and
be a good and productive citizen of this
world and of this country being loving
and caring for your mate is critical
your children need to see that example
that you care more about your mate than
your own life that you would do anything
for them that you would feed them clothe
them wipe the drool from their mouth
whatever it takes for your mate you
would do it all and they need to see
that so that one day when they have a
mate they're just as faithful just as
committed to their mate it is critical
that we pray at meals this idea that it
doesn't matter when we're out in public
that we don't need to say that oh no my
friend that's when you need to do it now
I don't think you need to stand up and
pray loud where everybody can hear you
but you do need to pray and people need
to see that bowed head and and you say
well then it's not making any unbeliever
thankful to God that's right but I tell
you there's Believers out there serving
you at the table and they're Believers
and they need to see a family that's not
afraid to show their faith in public we
need to be a person that is responsible
enough that we give an example at all
times that would even mean obeying the
law respecting the law if it's a stop
sign you stop at it if it's a red light
you stop at it if it's your yellow light
you go faster whatever it takes to obey
the laws around you because that Lawman
sitting on the corner needs to see that
there are people who are respectable
that just do what the law says every day
every day they stick to the the speed
limit signs they try to do the right
thing at every Point that's what we're
supposed to be an example of it not the
guy who breaks the rule but the example
of the rule rule keeper that's who we're
supposed to be we're supposed to go
beyond what a lot of people do so they
don't have to deal with us going to
church praying
daily everybody needs you to be
that and all of Paul's writings
encourage us to be an example as he was
trying to be let's walk through those
because it's critical that you read it
yourself because you may be sitting
there saying I'm not that
important I'm not critical in this thing
it doesn't matter if I am an
example it's critical that you
understand you are an
example look at these with me 1
Corinthians 4:1 16 Paul wrote therefore
I urge you imitate me oh but that's
Paul yeah Paul who killed
Christians he wasn't a perfect man quit
thinking of Paul Paul is somewhere up
here he's not Jesus I don't worship Paul
I'm not bowing my knee to Paul amen he's
a man like you and me if it weren't for
the grace of God he would be lost
eternally but we can do what he did he's
encouraging it well I would never
encourage that well shame on you you
should encourage it you should encourage
people do like I do and then you'll go
to
heaven cuz I'm going amen you say oh
that sounds arrogant no listen to me pay
attention to what I'm fixing to show you
look at all of these scriptures 1
Corinthians 11:1 Paul again says imitate
me just as I also imitate Christ you see
if we imitate Christ they can imitate us
amen think about that just a second 2
Thessalonians 3:9 not because we do not
have authority Paul says I have
authority I can tell you to do stuff but
to make ourselves an example of how you
should follow us you ought to do what I
do have you ever said that sometimes we
say don't do like I do do like I say do
it's the other way around do like I do
not necessarily always the way I say
it oo that's backwards no that's
forwards First Timothy 4 verse2 let no
one despise your youth
Timothy but be an example this is a
command and by the way it applies to you
and me you are being told within this
statement to be an example you may have
thought up into this moment oh I don't
have to be yet you do you must be an
example because whether you know it or
not you already are be an example to the
Believers my brethren need to see me
behaving amen they need to see you
behaving too they don't need to see me
liquored up they need to see me faithful
doing the right thing be an example to
the Believers in word in conduct in love
in spirit in faith and Purity that
covers a lot of territory right there to
be an example in but Titus 2 and verse 7
says in all things all
things
all
things showing yourself to be a
pattern of good what's a pattern you
ladies know what a pattern is any of
y'all still make clothes anybody still
do that or is that just something that
they used to do my mama used to make my
clothes you ever have that you ever have
that some of you may still do it a
pattern you lay it out right and you cut
along the edge of it you make exactly
what was laying there but in all things
showing yourself to be a pattern of good
works and look in the area not just in
good works but in Doctrine what we teach
and what we believe showing Integrity
reverence incorruptibility
wow now you say well where where are you
getting all this from Jesus you see
Paul Paul used the pronoun I've skipped
over something here up in your notes let
me go back it's going backwards nope let
me go back back back there we go it's
not in there all right so I'll just tell
you what it says John 13 verse1 15 John
13:15 says for I have given you an
example that you should do as I have
done to you that's the words of Jesus to
his disciples now think about this just
a
second do what I've done to you wait a
second he just I've just been an example
to you now do as I've done to you be an
example it's not just be a servant the
way I've been a servant that's true but
it has a greater meaning that is not
just be a servant the way I've been a
servant and washed your feet which is
what he had just done but now imitate me
and be an example to others okay and
that's the reason 1 Peter 2 and verse
211 says for to this you were called Now
understand if you haven't understood
this up until now you were called to do
something to this you were called
because Christ Alo suffered for us
leaving us an example that you should
follow his steps he left us an
example and you should follow any steps
to sacrifice yourself absolutely that's
the context of the statement but to be
the example of sacrificing
yourself it's a greater calling than
just to be the
sacrifice which means we must also
become an example like Christ now again
in Philippians
Paul is encouraging us all to be an
example as he was an example and if you
haven't paid attention in Philippians he
uses personal PR pronouns all over the
show about 41 times in Philippians he
uses personal pronouns in Philippians
3:17 Brethren join and following my
example and note those who so walk as to
how us for a pattern I want you to pay
attention not just to my pattern but the
pattern that other people have seen in
me and they've become a
pattern you following it he's a pattern
Jesus was the pattern that he followed
we like that follow his pattern which is
following Jesus pattern which is to be a
pattern that's what we're to be that's
the reason that the chose the passage
that was read in your Hing a moment ago
Philippians 4:9 I read it again the
things which you have
learned and received and heard and saw
in me these do and the God of Peace will
be with you what is he saying do
everything you've seen me do say
everything you've heard me say be like I
have been and you will go to heaven
now would you say that I know it scares
you to death you've not probably thought
about it that way and I'm trying to get
you to think about it that way because
the world and the people around you need
to see what your real purpose is which
is to be an example of Christ to the
world so we going to look at from Paul
in these four chapters of Philippians
we're going to look at four things very
quickly number one
we become an example by making Christ
our existence Philippians 1 verse 21 in
the first chapter this is what he says
for to me to live is Christ and to die
is gain what is he saying he's saying
that
Christ is my reason to
live now if you make Christ your reason
to live who should not fight follow that
do you know anybody that shouldn't do
that is he your reason to
live second
lesson we become an example by making
Christ our example so we become an
example by making Christ our example not
Paul now we're talking because
ultimately Paul was only trying to point
us to Christ but Philippians chapter 2
verse 5 again he points to this idea let
this mind be in you which was also in
Christ Jesus we need to think like
Christ
thought so if we will live for Christ
right then people will see it if we
think like Christ the world will see it
can you live like Christ or live for
Christ and can you think like Christ
thought which is great form of humility
number
next we become an example by making
Christ Our exchange what are you
exchanging your life
for few
coins is that what your life's about
having more toys when you
die having more pleasure having more
fun listen to what he said his life was
about Philippians 3 and: 7 but what
things were gained to me all that stuff
that you think is so wonderful he said I
had some of that in fact it's believed
that Paul was quite wealthy at one point
but what things were gained to me these
I've counted loss for
Christ what would you give it all up for
if you would give it all up for Christ
then you're an example if you would not
give it all up for Christ you're not
ready to be the example you need to be
every true child of God said that when
they repented of their sins confessed
the name of Christ and were buried in a
watery grave of baptism what they really
said is my life's over it's all about
Christ now I gave it all up now did you
mean it or was that just a show for the
rest of us to be impressed with if you
really meant it you gave it all up for
Christ at that
moment is it still that way have you
reached back out for it or did you you
give it all up number
next so we become an example not just by
making Christ our existence and our
example and the thing that we would
exchange everything
for but become an example by making
Christ our
excess the
thing that we would do in
excess
inordinately
more
beyond beyond it says in Philippians 4
fourth chapter each chapter if you
notice he's challenging you to do what
I'm doing did you notice that every
chapter he's doing it be like me I'm
following him be like me I'm following
him be like me I'm following him he's
doing it again in Chapter 4: 13 I can do
all things through Christ who
strengthens
me he can that is Christ can so I can
he can so I
can he can so I
can he can so I can whatever it takes if
he did it I should be willing to do it
if he did it I should be willing he's
just a human I know he God on the inside
but he's human on the outside right if
he can do it you can do it you should
make that your goal if he can he did it
so I can do it so become an example and
here's how I mean I know it's hard he's
sitting here going this sounds really
tough I agree 100% I'm right there with
you sounds tough to me too really hard
in fact but here's how you do it the
same way that Paul became an example he
did it by making Christ his
existence what his life was all about is
Christ what your life is all about or is
this just one of those
appendages something over here that you
just pick up on
Sunday Christ was his example he made
Christ the thing that he wanted to be
exactly
like for me to live as Christ I want to
know him power of his resurrection
Fellowship of his
suffering he made Christ his exchange
what he was willing to give everything
up for
what are we willing to give
up and making Christ his
excess whatever it takes I can do it
because Christ will help me do it
whatever that
is since Christ is our example let's
imitate him and become an example
ourselves C Spurgeon as you see up there
said this a man's life is always more
forcible than his
speech when men take stock of him they
reckon his deeds as dollars and his
words as
pennies if his life in Doctrine disagree
the mass of onlookers accept his
practice and reject his
preaching Warren Mueller in the book
homemade back in 1990 said there was a
study that disclosed the
following if Mom and Dad attend church
Church
regularly that's regularly that's every
Sunday on average 72% of their children
remain
faithful if only
dad 55% chance that they will remain
faithful if only mom is faithful it's
only a 15% chance that they will remain
faithful if neither attend Reg
regularly only about 6% chance that they
will remain
faithful it can
happen it's not
likely so when you sit there and you
think that what you did had no bearing
or what you do has no effect you're
mistaken everything you do matters your
example matters it really
does maybe we need to just do
and let God motivate the people around
us rather than us preaching at them
hello maybe they don't need our sermons
as much as they need our
behavior and maybe we just haven't been
Evangelistic in our Behavior because
we've acted just like the rest of
them you know if your behavior is no
different than anybody else then what's
there to
follow there's nothing to
follow in an article in King uh kpr
Wayfair posted back in 20 2011 a story
about
a a
gentleman who uh his neighbor spotted
was out you know those grabby things I
don't have one you know you reach down
and you grab trash with it yall know
what I'm talking about it's got like a
hand or something a pincher on the end
of it you seen that so this guy had one
of those he an old guy he was just and
they live real near to a school the guy
that's telling the story so there's just
a school right over there uh near their
their houses and he would go out and in
the tall grass and use that Grabber and
he was picking up the trash and he
noticed this and didn't think much about
it but he's kind of the trash picker
uper and he's kind of cheerful about it
so he went up to him and he said uh you
know those children from the school are
the ones that are mainly dropping all
the these bottles and the paper and it's
blowing over there you know that's true
and he says he said yeah I know that but
they're young and they don't know yet
but they will grow up and they will
learn not to do that in
time but he was very cheerful about it
and he went on he thought well okay and
then one morning he sees he's not out
walking and doing that he sees that all
the time just about every morning he
sees the guy picking the trash up he's
not getting paid anything for it he's
just doing it as a service and then one
morning he sees
now surrounded by so great a cloud of
witnesses let us run the race not only
for the
prize but as those who've gone before
us let us leave to those behind us the
heritage of
faithfulness passed on through Godly
lives oh may all who come behind us Find
Us Faithful May the power of our
devotion light their way may the
footprints that we leave lead them to
believe and the lives we live Inspire
them to obey oh may all who come behind
us Find Us
Faithful after
all our
hopes and all of our dreams have come
and
gone and our children sift through all
we've left
behind May the
clues that they discover and the
memories they
uncover become the light that leads them
to the road we each must find oh may all
who come behind us
Find Us
Faithful be an
example they need it they need it and
the heaven that's watching needs to see
it they want to cheer you on they want
to say Well done oh that was good oh I
know nobody saw it but we saw it we saw
it do it again do it
better as the song says there's an
allseeing eye watching you y'all know
that song I don't sing that very often
anymore it was an old one there's an
allseeing eye watching you but I want
tell you there's another eye there's a
little bitty eye watching you and
there's a mediumsized eye watching you
and there's a grownup eye watching you
and there's an old person eye watching
you I want tell you something if you're
sick and you're laying in a bed in a
hospital and this may be your last
moments there's a woman serving you
watching you how do you punch
out are you going to have a good
attitude are they going to see Christ in
you to the very end don't ever say you
don't have a purpose you always have a
purpose the most important purpose you
have be an
example if you're not being an example
maybe it's time to repent
be a better example do a better job with
that and if you've never given your life
to the Lord you could be an example to
younger people if you did it today if
you repented of your sins confess the
name of Christ and were baptized today
that would be an example to the young
people here going oh is that what you're
supposed to do there a little bit of
children be going I'd like to be
baptized not knowing what in the world
they're thinking but that's okay because
it sets an example and so too they'll
see you and some of you older members
who are not well you're here you don't
even feel well do you not know how
critical you are to this church we need
your
example but if you're out of place with
God then get back in and that would be a
great example right now if you would
come while we stand and while we sing
