there are some that I guess you'd have
to say are
hypocritical they have spiritual power
it
seems but are not responsible with it we
read about that Matthew 23 and verse
three it says uh do Jesus said do what
they say because the position they have
but don't do what they do
there are some that I suppose you could
say are despicable in their way they
have legal
power but are not responsible
either Daniel chapter 4 and verse 17
suggests that when it says that God puts
over the kingdoms of men whom he will
and he sets over it the lowest of men
in and then there are some that I guess
you would say are evil and in a way they
have electoral power the power of the
crowd but are not
responsible Exodus 23 and verse two
discusses that by saying don't follow a
crowd to do evil don't follow a crowd to
pervert Justice
just because everybody's going along
with it doesn't mean you need to go
along with it
too so just because someone appears to
have power doesn't mean you should do
what they do just because they appear to
have power doesn't mean they're the
highest of men and just because it
someone has the appearance of power does
not mean that you should follow
them a young Rabbi was it OD
with his
congregation and it was the Elders of
the congregation that he was at odds
with I've never had that experience
myself that's a joke but uh the the
president of the synagogue I we we do
things a little differently but it's not
that different uh they had Elders in the
synagogue I don't know if you're aware
of that the synagogues had elders and
they had deacons most people aren't
aware of that but they always had a head
Elder so he would be elected Ed from
among the elders so and he would keep
that position for quite a while in the
New Testament what that's referred to if
you're wondering what I'm talking about
you'll often hear the word a Young Ruler
or something to that effect or the ruler
of the synagogue those references are
Mark 538 Luke
8:49 uh Matthew 9:18 the modern day they
don't call it the ruler of the synagogue
they call it the president of the
synagogue so he he's one of the elders
and he's been elected the president of
the synagogue well this young Rabbi uh
was at odds with his eldership in the
synagogue and particularly at odds with
the president of the
synagogue and this Rabbi said well uh
you know we're at odds and the president
said well we just need to have a
conference to settle this dispute I
don't know what the dispute was about
doesn't matter to the story because
still the story uh the rabbi and the
president and then 10 Elders in this
particular synagogue got together to
discuss whatever this matter was and to
try to settle the dissension that was
between them the president of the
synagogue announced well now that we've
had a good discussion we need to have a
vote and we'll let the majority
rule and so the votes were collected and
the president of the synagogue said uh
Rabbi uh so I know you think you're
right
but it's 11 to one 10 Elders
myself against you so you think you're
right and I'm wrong and that's but we
just won the vote and the Rabbi says
well you think you're right and I'm
wrong because of this vote well think
again for I will call on the Holy One of
Israel to give us a sign that I'm right
and that you're wrong and immediately at
that moment there was a clap of thunder
and a bolt of lightning flashed and came
into the room hit the table that they
were sitting around this mahogany table
it split in two it blew everybody away
from the table except the young Rabbi he
is still standing there just like he is
a century everybody fell this way and
that way and the president of the
synagogue got up his hairs messed up his
glasses hanging off one ear and his
clothes are slightly
singed and the rabbi the young Rabbi
just sitting there
smiling and then the president of the
synagogue said all right all right so
it's
11-2 but we still have
majority so just because you have a a
position does not mean that you have a
responsible position doesn't mean that
you're showing responsibility doesn't
mean you're doing the right
thing and you see that I I suppose all
of us have experienced it in our homes
because in this story you have an older
brother and a younger brother Cain was
the older brother now I don't know if he
is firstborn he never says that there
may been other children born that we
don't have a record of but we do know
that he was born before Abel that's what
we do know and so he would be treated by
Abel as if he were the firstborn the
position of power now those of you who
are firstborn are going to appreciate
what I'm fixing to say right here
because you had a unique position within
the family uh you had to hide your
things
from time to time y'all know what I'm
talking about uh you were followed
around often when you didn't want to be
followed around and
admired uh not always
admired uh you were kind of like the
guinea pig child your parents were
experimenting on how to raise children
with you and they did not know what they
were doing
obviously uh y'all didn't take that
right you were the fossy
child what you said went uh you made
others do things for you and they didn't
even know they were doing
that uh you are the probably the jealous
child because the little ones were
getting too
much and they need to cut back but you
were also the protector or at least you
saw yourself as that and so you saw
yourself likely as the responsible
one however just because you're older
does not mean you're the responsible one
and that's clearly in this story is it
not so as a child of God we are expected
to be
responsible we really are expected to be
My Brother's Keeper my brother's
protector my brother helper that's what
I'm expeced but you got to understand
that only the ones who are
responsible do that so I want to walk us
through what I believe is really one of
the problems that we have is just seeing
are you really the more mature or
not I if you are more mature then
obviously you feel a responsibility
toward those around you if you don't you
don't feel
that you don't see that you have a
responsibility to the people on your
left and on your right and in front of
you and behind you so let's walk our way
through that how do we know when we're
really there there are many many things
that we could point to in fact quite
honestly I'm cutting the lesson slightly
short today I've heard that there's
going to be announcements and I'm like
announcements can go on forever
so let's move on number
one the physically older are likely more
responsible now that that's just an
obvious case it should be the case if
you're older than someone you ought to
be more responsible the Bible supports
that thinking several places we'll just
look at this one Romans 9:1 for the
children uh for the children not yet
being born nor having done any good or
evil that the purpose of God according
to the election might stand not of works
but of him who
calls it was said to her the older Shall
Serve the
younger that's interesting but now that
is basically the case anyway it really
should be the case if you're older than
someone you should be willing to help
the little one right the little one out
pick up the little one walk around with
that so those physically older are
likely more responsible you'll notice
that's the reason we put men who are
older over the church that's the idea
number two the evangelistically older
are likely more responsible you'll
understand what I mean by that when I
get through reading this passage 2
Corinthians 12 and verse4 now for the
third time I'm ready to come to you and
I will not be burdensome to you for I do
not seek yours but you he's being the
more responsible one for the children
ought not to lay up for the parents Paul
is like the parent of the Corinthian
Church the children ought not to lay up
for the parents but the parents for the
children it is responsibility of those
who are the more mature spiritually and
he who actually did the evangelizing so
if you convert somebody they aren't to
be responsible so much for you as you
must be responsible for them that makes
perfect sense doesn't it so that makes
sense on a epic scale across the
Brotherhood that those who are raising
up people are responsible for those who
are being raised up okay that's what a
good brother would do number next and
that is beneficially older those
beneficially older are likely more
responsible you'll understand what I
mean by that in just a second let's read
this passage it'll make more sense it
says verse 33 then he came to Capernaum
and when he was in the house he asked
them what was it you disputed among
yourselves on the road and verse 34 but
they kept silent they want to talk about
that they kept silent for on the road
they had disputed among themselves who
would be the greatest in the Kingdom as
you know that was a big discussion Point
verse 35 and of course they didn't mean
spiritually they meant power but anyway
verse 35
and he sat down called the 12 and said
to them if anyone desires to be first so
if you really want to be the top guy if
anyone desires to be first he shall be
last of all and servant of all so if you
really want to pick out who the more
mature person is it's the one who gets
up and starts serving the
others the one that gets up and starts
doing for the others the one that takes
a lead and making sure everybody else is
taken care of right sometimes that you
can see that at your house when your
wife gets up and starts taking care of
you gentlemen yeah yeah so just pay
attention beneficially older are likely
more
responsible and number last those it's
not number last it's nearly number last
sorry the the and it feels like it I'll
tell you why in a second the
theologically older are likely more
responsible it says in Hebrews 5: 12 for
though by this time you ought to be
teachers so there is a point in which
every single person in here should be
able to teach somebody
right okay uh you need someone to teach
you again the first principles of the
Oracles of God that's sad so you've been
a Christian for a long time and you
can't teach anything that's kind of sad
and you have come to need milk so so in
other words the only thing you really
want to hear about is here believer
confess and be baptized you should be
able to look up all the scriptures on
that and do that backwards by now but if
you have to have that to feel like
you're actually in church it says
something about you not the church
anyway and you have come to need milk
and not solid food there's there's
actually more stuff that matters other
than here believe repent confess and be
baptized that are actually more
important
for the rest of the
church just that's just the truth verse
13 for everyone who partakes only of
milk is unskilled in the word of
righteousness for he's a babe he thinks
that's the most important thing in the
world well the baby thinks the most
important thing in the world is that
bottle right he does verse 14 but solid
food belongs to those who are full
age uh that is those who by reason of
use have their senses e exercised to
discern both good and evil so those
theologically older are likely more
responsible and they end up being the
teachers that's just the way it
is number real last the reason I say
it's real last is because the last part
of this I'm cutting off the bottom of
this point the spiritually older are
likely more
responsible Galatians 6 verse1 Brethren
if a man is overtaken in any trespass
you who You Are Spiritual or You Think
You Are You Are Spiritual restore such a
one how do we know you're spiritual well
number one you're going to make an
effort to restore someone that you see
or failing restore such a one in a
spirit of gentleness and you will come
in gentleness not in hateful or evilness
but in a spirit of gentleness mildness
considering yourself lest you also be
temp you might end up doing the same
thing they've just done uh you need to
be careful about how speak to somebody
who's overtaken in the fall because you
may have already done something worse or
you may end up doing something worse one
day and you don't really want to be
caught out having really tore somebody
apart because of something they did when
you've done something worse or will do
something worse it doesn't really work
so those spiritually older are likely
more responsible I'm going to leave that
for there trying to get done a little
quicker here are the lessons that we
looked at there will be those who know
that they're their brother's keeper and
will be responsible for their brother as
they should have as Cain the older
brother should have done the physically
older are likely or should be more
responsible and those evangelistically
older should be but are likely more
responsible if you win somebody to
Christ the people you win you should be
older than them and and therefore more
responsible for them if you've had a
hand and reaching anybody here you know
need to to feel some responsibility to
them and then the beneficially older
that is you know somebody is probably
older when they get up and start serving
the others that they do feel that I'm My
Brother's Keeper feeling and not
everybody feels that and not everybody
gets up and starts serving the
theologically older the ones who
actually know some things that the
others don't know about the Bible oh we
all know the same thing no we don't and
so those who know more should be
responsible and serve the ones who don't
know to know the things they need to
know so that they can live the way they
need to live and then the spiritually
older are likely more responsible
because of their spirituality they are
aware that they've sinned and they are
aware of what it takes to kind of
restore someone because they've failed
and they've been restored and that's a
critical point so yes yes yes the truth
is you are supposed to be or become you
are supposed to be or become your
brother's keeper now there's a story
about this guy named Paul Gart now Gart
he really was a nobody he's absolute
nobody he's a poor man from a poor
Village he didn't have anything he's a
nobody but he rose to prominence and he
became a powerful influence on on the
church of his day and yet he was
literally raised virtually in poverty I
mean that just didn't happen in that day
but the story of how that happened is
quite
interesting gard's family was was so
very poor that even as a young lad he
took a job and as a Shepherd for a small
flock of a mixture of sheep and goats
and he kept them on the edge of the
forest which he would wander several
miles from
home uh but one day while he was out
watching the sheep and goats trying to
provide a little money for his
family uh a hungry man came out from the
trees and uh came walking up said to the
young fell uh how far is it to the
nearest
Village and Gart said well it's about
six miles
sir but the road is really
only a sheep track and you can easily
miss it if you're not careful you don't
know where you're
going he said well I've lost my way and
I'm really
tired and he said
well okay what do you want me to do he
said well leave your sheep
here and and show me the way and I'll
pay you well and the young fellow said
no sir uh I can't do that they'd go
astray theyd be be stolen the Wolves
could get them this back in Europe when
there still were
wolves he said never mind your master
would never miss one or two and I would
pay you more than the price of one or
two sheep I promise you but sir my
master trust me with these sheep and I
promised not to leave
them well this Hunter said well let me
take care of the sheep while you fetch
me some food from the village and a
guide to take me back to the
village and he said the Sheep don't know
your voice and they would not obey you
sir well can you not trust me he says
don't you trust me do I not look like an
honest man and he said sir you have
tried to make me false to my trust
already and break my word to my master
by not watching his sheep
how do I know that you will keep your
word to
me and the hunter laughed said well I
see your an honest young
man I'll not forget
you well which path must I go to try to
find my way and the young men said no
you can't go you haven't eaten anything
said you were hungry so the young man
took a
meager lunch he had it it was you would
think
nasty and he offered it to this
Hunter about the time he started to eat
the lunch a group of men came out of the
forest and they were looking for this
Hunter he happened to be the Grand
Duke and they were his attendants and
they were alarmed they'd been hunting
and they'd lost track of him couldn't
find
him and he was so pleased with his young
fellow and his honesty that the Duke saw
that he would be educated and guided and
eventually get into a position of power
within the church
even that's what God desires to do for
us all he wants to do that for elders to
make them more responsible he wants to
do that for deacons to make them more
responsible he wants to do that for
teachers to make them more responsible
he wants to take honest people and make
them something more Elders quite
honestly are critical to the strength of
a church I don't think you understand
most of you have never dealt with Elders
as I have I mean you really just don't
know and tell you you've seen a church
without
them you just don't
know you have no idea how critical our
elders are to this
church quite
honestly their respon responsibility is
so
serious I hope that one day you'll step
up to be one of
them we owe our elders three
things we owe them some
admiration 1 Timothy 5:17 let the elders
who rule well be counted worthy of
double honor especially those who labor
in the word and Doctrine they don't just
need to be honored they need to receive
extra honor
submission Hebrews 13:1 17 obey those
who rule over you and be a account
submit to them for they watch for your
souls as those who must give an account
let them do so with joy and not with
grief for that would be unprofitable for
you you need to learn how to just do
what they say I know that's hard I know
everybody here listen to me and I I need
to be real straightforward here this is
a smart Church
most of the people in this church have
got a good position smart
people very good at what they do okay
some of your IQs go off the charge I
know that I can talk to some of you and
tell you you just you're
brainiacs not all of you
but but most of you are really
sharp I I ask questions all the time
from different business people here and
I'm I'm like wow you know so much I
don't know anything about I'm just
astounded
okay I know you're smart but submission
has nothing to do with
smart
nothing and and not only do you need to
owe them your admiration it's your
submission but information James 5:14 is
anyone among you sick let him call for
the Elders of the church and let them
pray over him anointing him with oil in
the name of the Lord you can't just sit
in sulk that nobody Call Me Nobody
checked on me nobody did anything for me
tell
them tell them ask
them for but for all their efforts to
Serve and Protect and help
us they can pretty well be ridiculed
behind their back here's a word for you
Elders who' have been ridiculed behind
your back a friend told the famous
philosopher
Plato of a terrible charge that had been
leveled against
him and knowing it was true but not true
excuse me his friend said uh what are we
going to do it's
terrible what are we going to do you
know it's not
true and Plato said we must simply live
in such a way that all people will know
it's fault
well that doesn't fix the gossip does
it it's okay
Elders great elders just keep serving
John Brody y'all remember John Brody
y'all know anything about football John
Brody quarterback for the San Francisco
49ers from 57 to 73 for 17 years and he
used to every time there was a field
goal or an extra point he put his finger
on top of that ball held
it and he has been interviewed by a
reporter says uh what do a million
player like you why do you hold that and
do such a menial task Brody said well if
it didn't it would fall
over so we also owe each
other respect admiration submission
information if we're going to be good
brother Keepers for each other right so
what the challenge of this is not that
there are people who are Elites and they
can be our Brother's Keeper but that
falls on all of us every last one of us
can you be your brother's
keeper they're all in Christ our brother
his name is Jesus
Christ kept us did he not did he not
Step Up for you and me we're to follow
in his example do as he did let's be our
Brother's Keeper yes you are your
brother your sister's keeper yes you are
but if you're not maybe it's because
you're not one of our brothers yet so if
you repent of your sins confess the name
of Christ be baptized we'd love for you
to be one of our brothers won't you come
if you need to while we stand and while
we
sing
