Christmas dreams of guidance Charles
Dickens wrote in 1843 A Christmas Carol
most of you know this story you know
Christmas Eve a guy named uh Scrooge was
visited by four ghosts uh obviously it's
not a true story but it changed him
forever and that's a story that uh
Charles Dickens wrote and then in 1849
same author wrote A Tale of Two Cities
and what's that's I've told all that to
get to this most of you know how it
begins it was the best of times it was
the worst of times so uh basically it's
the same today isn't it I don't care
what world you live in it was the best
of times it's the worst of times it's
always like that so somebody says oh no
it's just that way when the guy that I
didn't vote for gets in you know it's
the worst of times all it's only the
best of times when it's the guy I voted
for uh but it's never exactly the same
and yet it's always the same uh so
people say the time I know just how you
feel you ever had that said to you I
know just how you feel and the truth is
no you don't you really don't know just
how I feel you know something about how
I feel I know something about how you
feel uh like many you you do not uh want
to know exactly how some people feel
Believe It or Not uh you just don't even
want to think about it so as far as
actually knowing often you don't even
want to know I read this a blogger wrote
this recently and I was reading this I
thought it was kind of interesting he
says in situations where I know people a
bit but not extremely well I feel like I
try to ask people questions to get to
know them or their kids better but no
one ever shows any curiosity about me or
my family I don't mean extremely probing
personal questions I mean along the
lines are are you traveling anywhere for
the holidays or how is little Bobby
liking the new music teacher or
how did your recent business trip go the
the person will respond and ask nothing
about me or my family ever is this
normal or am I an especially
uninteresting
person 54% of Americans uh report
feeling as though no one really knows
them at
all
54% there no two persons have
exactly the same
experience with
God now bre that in no two persons have
exactly the same experience with God in
our daily life our experiences have much
in common though so if we're talking
about our prayer
experiences they have much in common uh
we could talk about the basics of our
exper experiences and they
parallel but they're not exactly the
same now does that not mean that we have
exactly the same experiences ever no but
I think some people want to be so
special they like that
talk they want to be special they want
to be different and so they try to
suggest that they really have something
really different about their life but
the truth is that we don't have exactly
the same things happening to us I mean
the story that we're looking at tonight
is Joseph quite honestly uh none of us
have had his dreams and another thing
Christ will never be born again so
that's never going to be an experience
but it's kind of like this the
scriptures say that our experience is
similar to birds
do you have exactly the same experience
as a bird I wouldn't think so but
Matthew 6 and verse 26 says look at the
birds your heavenly father feeds them
are you not much more valuable than they
are so you have a similar in a way but
not similar at all and our experiences
are similar to the grass according to
Matthew 6:30 if God so clothe the grass
of the field will he not much more
clothe you so you have a similar
experience with the grass but not
similar at all so don't be surprised
though since we have similar
experiences that our experience with God
might be very similar and yet different
in very specific ways so Joseph's
experience with God is not ours I'm
going to use it tonight but we shouldn't
assume that exactly what would happen to
Joseph would be something we would
expect to see but the parallels are
there and you need to look beyond the
specifics to the parallels of his
experience we're going to look at four
truths for us that we have in common
with Joseph and his Christmas dreams of
guidance if you're changing the slide
you can change it now I don't know if
I'm slight changing it or not oh here we
go the Christmas gift of protective
guidance this is the idea
of God intending to protect someone
what's in our text I encourage you to
open your Bibles to Matthew Chapter 2
going to be reading through that Matthew
Chapter 2 beginning in verse 13 again
let's just reread verses 13- 15 it says
now when they had departed behold an
angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in
a dream that is the mag i' left appeared
to Joseph in a dream so it's an angel in
the dream again remember Joseph had an
angel in the dream now it's an angel in
the dream again saying arise take the
young child and his mother and flee to
Egypt and stay there until I bring you
word for Herod will seek the young child
and destroy him verse 14 when he arose
he took the young child and his mother
by night and departed for Egypt so he
not only did it he did it at night he
got out of there as quickly as he could
I don't know if it's the same night
doesn't say that he just left by Night
verse 15 and was there until the death
of Herod so Herod was dead that it might
be fulfilled which was spoken by the
Lord through the prophet saying out of
Egypt I call my son talk about the
prophecy in just a little bit basically
the protective nature of the Lord the
protective nature of God's
manifestations because God manifests
himself in your life he does he gives us
guidance through it John 14:21 said he
would he who has my Commandments and
keeps them it is he who loves me and he
who loves me Will Be Loved by my father
and I will love him and manifest myself
to him now it doesn't say oh well he'll
appear on your bed or he'll be in a
vision or you'll have dreams that's not
the point of what I'm trying to say here
the idea though is we have parallel
experiences and God promised that he
would manifest himself to you so you
shouldn't expect exactly what happened
there or there or there in the Bible but
rather that God answers our prayers if
we ask for leading in our life which I
often uh Matthew 6 and: 13 lead us not
into temptation that's appropriate
Matthew 7:7 ask and you'll receive but
now God is told we are told in Proverbs
16:9 that God directs our steps he
either does or he doesn't right so he
directs our steps so does God direct our
steps I believe he does do I know
exactly how he will do that that for me
I don't even know how you'll do it for
me so if you're asking me to tell you
how you will do it for you I have no
idea how you'll do it for you but I will
tell you that I went to Africa because I
believed God was directing my steps
there were many indications along the
path that was pushing me in that
direction phone calls letters and then
events in my life which were
providential that led me to the
conclusion I really need to try to go to
Africa didn't really want to go but I
was willing to try and so I did that now
you may not agree with that that's okay
but I think if you just think about this
just a second we're not expecting you to
go to Africa or you to have the same
experience I'm not saying that I'm
saying that God does work in our lives
and God does move in our lives so Joseph
was blessed with Christmas dreams of
guidance but we too are blessed to have
God's Gift of protective guidance that
means uh that God tries to look after us
and make sure that we don't do something
really dumb we don't always listen we
don't always look for it and sometimes
we get caught but God does kind of
protect us along the pathway the second
lesson I want you to see is that this
Christmas gift of prescriptive guidance
now this is the idea that God H imposes
or has an imposition or inforcement of
some rule trying to get us to do
something that's right and not do
something that's really going to be
wrong in Matthew Chapter 2 back to the
text verse 19 and 20 and 21 verse 19
says when Herod was dead so they went to
Egypt just like the angel told them
right they went so that was God guiding
them to protect them down there now
we're looking at what God's going to
tell them to do this is not about
protection now this is about just
telling you what you really ought to do
right and he says in verse 20 saying
arise take the young child and his
mother and go to the land of Israel so I
want you to go back up where you came
from because that's the people of God
that's the homeland of God want you to
go back there and then it says for those
who sought the young child's life are
dead verse 21 then he arose took the
young child and his mother and came into
the land of Israel again you should not
expect that this would be our experience
you're not going to have be told to go
to Israel I'm not suggesting anything
like that but I am suggesting that God
sometimes give you prescriptive guidance
so the prescriptive nature of God's
affirmation when he gives us guidance is
important to pay attention to for
example 1 Timothy 4: 14- 15 talks about
2 Timothy sayso not neglect the gift
that is in you which was given to you by
Prophecy with the laying on the hands of
the eldership meditate on these things
give yourself entirely to them that your
progress may be evident all
basically God wants you to use what God
has given you is the message I get out
of
that by God himself what does he do for
us probably the one thing you can't
argue with at all is Romans chapter 8
and verse 13 and Romans chapter 8 verse
13 something I struggle with really hard
but it's it you can't ignore it
subsequent to
Salvation And you have to look at it and
see it sub subsequent to Salvation in
that passage Paul shows us that we are
God's children and where our path is and
the spirit Bears witness with our
spirit you say well how does he do that
it does not say it does not say but it
does say that he does that so when we're
on the path that God wants us to go
there's an affirming of our our spirit
in that thing you say now what do you
mean by that well I'm going to give you
an example right
here okay now many of you probably know
Aaron's story many of you have heard
Aaron's story Aaron and his
wife you may have heard about the
pennies here they are
so Aaron and his wife believe this story
whether you believe it or not and you
may say well that would never happen for
me I doubt it would because you're not
going to have the experience he had this
is their experience okay I'm not going
to read this to you take too long I'm
not going to tell you the whole story
I'm just going to say they're married in
large part today because of these eight
pennies you may find that weird but I
find it amazing that somebody could be
married because they found
eight pennies but it was the way they
found the eight pennies when he found
the eight pennies and what he had prayed
before the eight pennies were revealed
you you need to ask him the story makes
me cry every time I hear it okay so what
I'm suggesting to you is is God will
affirm what he wants you to do he will
he'll affirm it how I'm not going to
explain it cuz I don't know see well why
don't you know because your experience
will be different mine will be different
but he will do the same thing he does
for one he affirms you're on the right
path that's the way go back to Israel
Joseph was blessed with Christmas dreams
of guidance we too are blessed to have
God's Gift of prescriptive guidance if
we pay attention now if you just want to
live the way you want to live then you
will never notice the eight
pennies you will never see them and if
you see them you'll ignore them because
you don't live that way God doesn't get
involved in my
life
no don't want to
break
now the Christmas gift of prescriptive
guidance is when God forbids or
restricts
something you know most of you know my
DB story I'm not going to get into it
some of you are knew you don't know the
dove story but basically if you remember
the dove story I wanted to come back
home from Africa we had been there uh a
little over five
years and uh I'd been clobbered pretty
good uh as you know I had the brain
problem and so um I felt back at this
point not sorry I'm telling the story
wrong this was within the first year
that all the clouding came later
but in the first year I got to the end
of the year we hadn't successfully
started even the first church we' gone
over there to start seven churches in
seven years and the first year was
virtually done and we hadn't got it
going we were being stopped on every
level and I got sick and I wanted to
just quit throw it all away and then
prayed the prayer you'd have to send me
a dove I won't tell you how that all
happened but I'm not saying I saw a dove
on the power lines but a dove appeared
in my house and uh that's not magic that
really happened but I believe that God
gets involved in giving us prescriptive
guidance and that was prescriptive
guidance don't leave I wanted to leave I
was
done don't leave we didn't leave because
of the dove that's it otherwise I was
gone I'm just telling you straight up
I'd have been back
here Matthew 20 uh 2 verses 22 and 23
but when he heard that arelius was
reigning over uh Judea instead of his
father Herod he was afraid to go there
and being warned so we didn't want to go
back to Bethlehem or Judea and being
warned by God in a dream and again it's
a dream he turned aside into the region
of Galilee and he came which is probably
the area Mary was from and he came and
dwelt in a city called Nazareth that it
might be fulfilled which was spoken by
the prophet ET he shall be called a
Nazarene I'll get back to that in a
minute so the prescriptive nature of
God's admonition gives us guidance
really well let's just take another
example and I think you'll see that it's
very different from this one it's not
the same but it doesn't mean it's not
the same acts 16: 6-10 says now when
they and I want you to pay attention to
the personal pronoun they it's not one
of those weird things but stay with me
and they had gone through uh fry and the
region of galatia they were forbidden by
the Holy Spirit to preach the go word in
Asia after they had come to missia they
tried to go into bethenia but the spirit
did not permit them so passing by missia
they came down to troas and a vision
appeared to Paul in the night a man of
Macedonia stood and pleaded with him
saying come over to the Macedonia and
help us now after he had seen the div
Vision immediately we not they anymore
we sought to go to Macedonia concluding
that the Lord had called us to preach
the gospel to them interesting that it
changed from uh they to we or us now we
don't really know what happened here
anybody tells you he knows exactly what
happened here is just making something
up there's no way to actually know it
could have been the direct Revelation
kind of sounds like that but it doesn't
say that uh it could be that the
situation literally would not allow them
to go there how could that be well we
don't really know uh I'll suggest a
couple of ideas in just a moment because
there could have been other reasons and
we don't know what they were but God
answers prayers for wisdom James 1 and
verse 5 right if you lack wisdom pray
for wisdom do you know how that comes oh
yeah I know I know no you don't
no you don't you don't know how he's
going to do it you say well oh well
it'll be by experience and somebody say
no no no no it'll be by the word of God
you'll be taught that oh no no it won't
be like that it'll be miraculously the
truth is you don't really know how God
does that you can say what you you know
but you don't really know how he does it
we just know he does it right cuz he
says he does it our prayers for Godly
counsel Proverbs uh 12:1 15 we're told
to pray for Godly counsel could that
have been in involved in what happened
the reason that they didn't go in other
words did it have to be a direct
Revelation or could others have stepped
up who were Believers and said don't go
there don't go there bad idea that's not
the place you should go you shouldn't be
going there I'm telling you straight up
it could be I don't know but here's the
thing he gives us warnings and guided
Alternatives in our life and in this
case it could have been border closes it
could have been a war it could have been
some kind of Insurgency some kind of
terrorist Act activity some kind of
crime rates
diseases Unfaithful co-workers that
suddenly bail that were going to help
them go in there or some kind of support
system or the region was in the middle
of a famine and there was nobody going
in everybody's flooding out I have no
idea what it was here's what I do know
though is that God used a pro
prescriptive guidance to say don't go
there don't do that this God do that now
does God show us not to do something I
think God shows us all the time we just
sometimes don't pay attention and then
we do some dumb things and then we get
stuck with the bill Joseph was blessed
with Christmas dreams of guidance but we
too are blessed to have God's gifts of
prescriptive guidance let me give you on
the hill of that what I'm talking
about
uh where we ended up was not
prescriptive guidance but it was
predictive guidance which is the next
point which you might go ahead and put
up there and let me tell you this story
before I do that because I got two
stories to tell you on that in that in
Africa the weirdest thing happened y'all
may not know this but we're here because
of what happened over
there we were at the dinner
table and dear elim was V visiting with
us y'all remember dear dear Alam was
visiting with us and he says when you
get back to America you're going to buy
a house and I said I don't know if we'll
ever be able to afford a house I mean I
was making $244,000 a year in Africa
okay and that was half of that a good
portion of had St over here and pay
taxes and stuff so $24,000 a year for
the many years there so I said I don't
know if we'll ever be able to afford a
house okay that may never happen and so
he said well when you get back look up
my
daughter and she'll maybe help you out
she's
realtor y'all know her
right and so
um put the
card I think Deb in her purse I don't
remember where we put it wasn't in my
bill phone put the card we had friends
who were leaving Africa at the time
members of the church leaving Africa
virtually the same month we were leaving
they said they're going to Florida I
said don't go to Florida it's the worst
place on the planet I would never live
in Florida that's on a stre I told him
straight up that's not a joke I'm not
trying to be cute I would never live in
Florida that was my rule of thumb I
didn't want to live in Florida it was
not my desire to live in Florida I
didn't even when I came down here to try
out I did not want to come here so I
mean I I'm sorry that didn't have
nothing to do with y'all this is honest
truth I didn't want to come here
so weirdest thing in the world so the
church that sponsored us to go to Africa
the preacher there heard that there was
a job coming open in Brandon and he said
you ought to really call that this is a
good church and I said it's Florida and
he said no you should really give him a
call and I said I thought I don't I'm
not calling there I'm not going there
but um anyway long story short I did it
he said Bel schs a great church you need
to at least check it out and uh the
realator friend when we moved here we
were already here
was based in
Brandon the people that left over there
that were our friends moved to
Brandon three different
families Joseph was blessed with
Christmas dreams of guidance but we too
are blessed to have good gifts of
prescriptive guidance but we also have
predictive guidance that's the effect of
predicting an event that's coming let me
stay on that just a little bit but let
me read Matthew chap 2: 14- 15 let me
see if I can help you what I'm trying to
say when he arose he took the young
child and his mother by night and
departed for Egypt so he did that and
was there until the death of Herod that
it might be fulfilled which was spoken
by the Lord through the prophet saying
out of Egypt I will call my son where is
that spoken that's Hosea 11:1 and
Jeremiah 31:15 it's a specific
predictive thing does God know the
future yes do do you no none of us know
the future but God knows the end from
the beginning he knows everything that's
coming in Matthew Chapter 2 same text
just verses 16- 18 then Herod when he
saw that he was deceived by the wise men
was exceedingly angry and he sent forth
and put to death all the male children
who in Bethlehem and in all its
districts from two years old and under
according to the time which he had
determined from the wise men verse 17
then was fulfilled what was spoken by
Jeremiah the prophet saying a voice was
heard in Rama lamentation weeping and
great mourning Rachel weeping for her
children refusing to be comforted
because they are no more coming back to
that thought in just a moment and then
so that's the second prophecy that's in
this it's one is about the death of the
children the other is about coming out
of Egypt the third prophecy that's in
this passage is Matthew 2: 22 and 23 but
when he heard that arus was uh reigning
over Judah instead of his father Judea
uh instead of his father Herod he was
afraid to go there and being warned by
God in a dream again that dream thing he
turned aside into the region of Galilee
and he came and dwelt in a city called
Nazareth that it might be fulfilled
which was spoken by the prophet he shall
be called a Nazarene now I'm going to
tell you let me say something about that
prophecy specifically many many people
say can't find it there's no such thing
as a prophecy about a Nazarene if you
look for the word Nazarene in the Old
Testament you will not find it there is
no specific prophecy about Nazarene in
the Old Testament at all is this a lie
is this the truth well I believe it's
100% truth and I'm going prove it just a
second but it doesn't say it that way
that is not the way it says it the
predictive nature of God's revelation
though gives us his guidance he knows
the future and how far ahead doesn't
have to be far ahead because Psalm 11915
says your word is a lamp to my feet and
the light to my path just his word alone
if the rest of this is bothering you
just his word alone is predictive enough
to give you a a little insight into the
very next step you're going to
make because God's truth is truth and it
will guide you into the very next little
step you make as simple as that sounds
by God Opening Our Eyes he equips us to
see the scriptures and the applications
and prophecies we previously missed and
that's identified in Luke 24: 45 when
Jesus appeared to these two guys on the
road to EMAs and when he spoke to them
about the word their heart burned within
them and then he opened the scriptures
to them so that they'd understand sty
now going back to the idea of God having
predictive of your own life does God
know what's going to happen in your life
so many people are so scared of that and
they're like well then I don't have free
will that's not
true but God knows what's going to
happen in your life it doesn't mean that
you don't have free will but he can know
because if he knows everything he knows
everything or he doesn't know everything
right so let me go back to my story now
I don't take you back to what we believe
God was leading us to do before we went
to Africa okay this is what I had tons
of paperwork on this I could show you I
probably got them in the file still we
were going to go to Africa for seven
years we were going to start seven
churches and seven different
cities that was the plan seven years
seven churches Seven Cities
in the sixth year when we started the
sixth Church in
quima I Had a Brain
problem I was a mess y'all know that
story don't get into
that the only thing I could think of
doing is
leaving and so we
did we left in May on May the 11th of
1996
we started work here September of
1996 during that time that we moved here
we became again to see guess who dear
elim because his daughter lived here
remember the real estate thing right and
dear started saying how about going with
me on a mission
trip to help this guy named Paul Jones
in Africa start a
church I I wanted to go back to afca I
was still having mental problems okay I
wanted to go back to Africa at that
point probably less than getting shot in
the head I had no desire but I thought
well okay you know how you are well
maybe you don't preachers just say yes
anyway and so you just do it what's next
and you just do it okay so I agreed we
went
back it was January
February of
1997 guess the name of the town we were
starting the church
in
Florida I help start the seventh
Church within seven
years in seven
different
towns who knew that was going to
happen especially after the sixth
year back to the Nazareth thing all
right where does it say Nazareth right
does it say Nazareth in the Bible yeah
yeah that in the New Testament all all
over the place but where's the prophecy
it's in Isaiah 11 ver1 it's
niter niter is used in Isaiah 11:1 the
Hebrew word niter means means a
branch Nazareth derives its name from
the meaning of a
branch are there prophecies about the
Branch
Everywhere Zechariah 611 Jeremiah 1:1
Jeremiah
33:15 Zechariah 3:8 Isaiah 4:2 Jeremiah
235 Ezekiel 7 3 Malachi 4:1 prophecies
about the branch what's the who is the
branch it's
Jesus he's the branch the
netser yes he was going to be the netser
it's exactly what he was with that's the
prophecy what I'm trying to say is God
really knew what he's talking about and
he hundreds of times that's the meaning
of the word Joseph was blessed with
Christmas dreams of guidance but we too
are blessed to have God's Gift of
predictive guidance we just sometimes
just don't want to think that God would
do that I don't know why I think we're
scared to death of God actually moving
in our life I might have to listen to
him I might have to make my decisions
based upon his leading rather than what
I just want to do it's like praying Lord
give me what I want give it to me right
now and if you don't I'm not going to
believe in you
anymore Christmas dreams of guidance
Joseph was blessed with the Christmas
dreams of guidance but we are blessed to
have God's Gift of protective guidance
his prescriptive guidance his
proscriptive guidance which tells you
not to do a thing and your his
predictive guidance you say well I just
never have experienced any of that you
wouldn't that's the point of this lesson
you would not have exactly what I had
what Aaron had what Jose ofad you are
not to expect that but not to expect the
principle to not work in your life is a
bit quite honestly and I don't mean
anything disrespectful it's a little
dimwitted that we just ignore it and
think oh well that's not like that
anymore well that's convenient anything
in the Bible's not like that anymore
except when I want to say it is like
that it either is like that or isn't
like that that's funny so we know how
you feel in a way I know how you feel oh
I know just how you feel in a way and in
a way I don't know how you
feel uh we do have common basic
experience with God we have common basis
experience with Joseph but we shouldn't
expect the same thing so as Christmas
Comes upon us don't think no one has
been through what you're feeling we've
been through similar but not exactly the
same thing we may not have been through
exactly the same thing but we have been
through something
similar and God was with us and he'll be
with you
and go to the next slide and
Carl Stewart
Hamlin died in
1989 he was an Entertainer in 1926 he
became one of the radio's first singing
Cowboys do y'all remember this guy he
became a singer an actor a radio show
host and a songwriter in 1931 Hamlin
began hosting the popular radio program
family
album in California he also composed
music enacted in Motion Pictures with
cowboy
Stars including do you know these names
Jean alry Roy Rogers John Wayne he was
in movies with
them but he didn't cope well with the
pressures of being an actor and a
high-profile person and so he began to
seek comfort in
alcohol he had a real problem with
alcohol drinking landed him in jail
quite a few times he would get into
brawls a lot of destructive Behavior but
he was hugely popular and so the radio
station back in the day had some power
and they called in favors and they got
him out of jail quite a few times but
they smooth things over for a time but
his drinking and his gambling began to
catch up with him is severely affecting
his life they started having trouble
keeping up with it after years of
struggle though with alcohol he attended
a Billy Graham
crusade in Los Angeles and became a
believer in
Jesus after that he was fired when I say
after it I mean immediately after it why
because he refused to do alcohol
commercials anymore when he gave it up
when he quit the alcohol he quit
it he quit it he said he's a Christian
he gave it up right then he quit it and
as a result because one of their major
sponsors for the radio station
he was
fired John
Wayne almost exactly the same time big
buddies John Wayne y'all remember I
forgotten what his real name was but
John Wayne offered him a drink shortly
afterwards and Hamlin refused to drink
with him and his response this is what
Hamlin said to John Wayne this is where
I'm going it is no secret what the Lord
can
do and John Wayne said to him that's
pretty good you should write a song with
by that title and in 1949 steuart Hamlin
listened to John R Wayne and he wrote
these words the CHS of time ring out the
news another day is through someone
slipped and fell was that someone you
you may have longed for added strength
your courage to renew do not be
disheartened I have news for you it is
no secret what God can do what he's done
for others he'll do for you With Arms
Wide Open he'll pardon you it is no
secret what God can do there is no night
for in his light You'll Never Walk Alone
you'll always feel at home wherever you
May Roam there is no power can conquer
you while God is on your side take him
at his promise
don't run away and hide it is no secret
what God can do what he's done for
others he'll do for you With Arms Wide
Open he'll pardon you it is no secret
what God can
do but
somehow we act like it
is but if we would
believe that Jesus Christ is the Risen
Lord and we would repent change our
heart and we would confess that Jesus
Christ is Lord like this morning you
saw and we would be baptized immersed
underwater water
underwater our sins will be forgiven and
the Holy Spirit will come to rest within
us what makes you think that Rex just
because it happened to them doesn't mean
it'll happen to us that was way back
then that was 2,000 years
ago because while we don't have exactly
the same experience we have very very
similar
experiences so God will do for
you what he's done for others do you
believe
it I do amen I really do so look for his
hand in your life if you've wandered
away from him I bet he's nudging you
already to come back back
