you know my theory is thatth dad jokes
are the very best jokes there
are can I prove it I mean I just prove
it what does a baby computer call his
father
data you know I have learned that I
don't trust
stairs no more I don't trust teirs
they're always up to
something
if you only get sick on
weekdays you have a weakend immune
system y'all should be cackling rolling
in the aisles at this
point well that's another response if
you if you're addicted to the Hokey
Pokey don't worry you can
always turn yourself around that's it
see I'm not the only one who knows about
dad
jokes let me be serious about theory for
a
moment I want to talk to you about the
theory of humor there are three theories
on humor you ever study this it's
interesting obviously I know all about
it the three theories are the first
theory is called the relief Theory the
relief Theory maintains that laughter is
a mechanism by which psychological
tension is reduced so we often laugh
when tension
Rises a second theory is called the
superiority theory that theory is the
idea that a person laughs about the
misfortunes of others affirming a
person's superiority over them like when
you see somebody get hurt but it's not
you it's kind of
funny notice you didn't laugh but you've
all done it before number three there's
the in congruous theory now the
incongruous theory states that humor is
perceived uh really as the mo moment of
realization of in congruity between a
concept involving a certain situation
and real objects thought to be in some
relationship to the concept so it's it's
a surprise you twist it just at the last
moment and so it's in congruous and you
find that humorous those are the three
theories there are a lot of theories out
there one of the theories you've heard a
lot about is critical race Theory CRT
now what that is is that affirms that
racism is more than personal
prejudices but it it it has affected our
system to the legal system the political
system institutional systems causing
unfairness in our world now for a
Christian in this environment Christians
know that racism is a sin to be resisted
and not only do Christians know that but
Christians know that all things that
pertain to life and godliness are found
here so no matter what the theories are
out there Christians know that our heart
is deceit F but the Bible is truth so I
may deceive myself into believing
something about myself that may not be
true but the Bible will reveal it in
time and for a Christian uh Christians
are to assume the best of their brothers
and sisters I'm to assume that you don't
have the problem that I
have I should always do that rather than
saying oh we're all like that no no no
no that that's not the appropriate way
you should speak or we all have a
problem with this no no no no don't
speak that way you're assuming everybody
else is as bad as you are that's not
what you're supposed to assume you're
supposed to assume that your brothers
and sisters are better than you that's
where you should go I'm trying to teach
you something right now and I know you
don't like this but this is important
for you to get treat everybody that's
your brother and sister like they don't
have the problems you have not like they
have worse
problems that's a tough one to in I
swallow it breathe it's for you and then
as Christians we're to be reconciled to
one another in Christ we're to be
one so there's no room for that concept
of CRT there just no room for it in us
on the other hand there is critical
Grace Theory which is slightly different
it affirms salvation is not not
obtained as often the religious majority
and by the way the religious majority
Christian religious majority of the
world do not believe in grace the way we
should and that's the majority of
Believers in Christ worldwide affirms
that salvation is not obtained as the
religious majority Say by doing
something to appeal to God for his Mercy
to escape his wrath rather we resist
trusting religious
activities and we trust in God's
grace we will try and we should resist
putting confidence in our works of
righteousness and we trust in Christ's
cross to save us now that's the theory
of critical Grace
and That's essential you see God's unmar
favor is what we call
Grace and it's hard for us to accept it
it's not hard for some of us it's hard
for all of us but some take it to
another
level it's hard because
of our ignorance to some
degree
we are
ignorant of much of scripture and you
say oh I'm not ignorant of the
scriptures so you read it every day for
hours on it do you know it all I think
we are ignorant Romans 10 and verse3 for
they being ignorant these are the Jews
who studied the Bible day after day
after day and most the rabbis could
quote Genesis Exodus Leviticus Numbers
and Deuteronomy by without looking at it
could you do that
for they being ignorant of God's
righteousness and seeking to establish
their own righteousness have not
submitted to the righteousness of God
that's the problem when we start
thinking we know a
lot and yet we're ignorant and there's
also another problem because of
deviance Galatians 1: 6 and 7 says this
I Marvel that you are turning away so
soon from him who called you into the
grace of Christ to a different gospel
which is not enough another but there
are some who trouble you and want to
pervert the gospel of Christ any
discussion of trying to nullify
Grace as if I could do enough to be
saved is perverting the gospel of Christ
it's a
deviation and because of their pretense
there's a pretense within us if we're
not careful Galatians 5:4 you have
become aranged from Christ you who
attempt to be justified who attempt who
attempt who attempt to be justified by
the law and what he's the point of his
statement is you can't be who attempt to
be justified by the law you have fallen
from grace and there's many things we
attempt to be justified by that will not
save us it is the grace of God that
saves
us and then because of their reluctance
there's a reluctance to receive Grace 1
Peter 1:13 therefore G up the loins of
your mind be sober and resue your hope
fully on the grace that is to be brought
to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ
do you rest your hope fully on the grace
of God or do you still trust a little
bit on yourself you see there's a
reluctance to put on my full weight on
Grace To Save Me Oh but but but I did
this but that isn't what does
it it's hard is it we have a reluctance
in it every one of you sitting there
going yeah but yeah that's what we do
see we we have a reluctance and then
because of error arrogance arrogance is
a real problem for all of us James 4:6
God resists the proud but gives grace to
the humble so if you want Grace you got
to be a little more humble about who you
are this lesson is about that really I
want to give you seven reasons that
Grace is critical to all of our personal
salvation in our lesson today we're
going to look at this critical Grace
Theory because quite honestly it has to
be treated as a theory because a lot of
people struggle to believe it even
people who go to church every Sunday
struggle to believe that Grace is the
way is described in the scriptures let's
go down the
list theoretical Grace or theoretically
Grace is critical because it is for the
unhappy did you know that Isaiah 53 now
what's interesting about Isaiah is
Isaiah 5354 and 55 are all about Grace
it really is that's what those chapters
are about the 53 we just had read to us
a moment ago let me reread just a few
verses there verse four surely he has
borne our griefs and carried our sorrows
don't forget when we're saved who takes
care of our griefs and our sorrows that
means that we're not happy about life
people who come to Christ if you're
happy about life you probably don't come
to Christ we come to Christ unhappy
about life oh I was miserable about my
life before Christ surely he has borne
our griefs and carried our sorrows yet
we esteemed him stricken Smitten by God
and Afflicted see the happy do not need
mercy and Grace as much in their
minds the people who think that they're
so happy here don't think they need
grace and mercy as much Isa James 4:9
and 10 lament and mourn and weep did you
know the Bible commands you to lament
mourn and weep have you heard these
verses you ever read the Bible listen to
this one it says lament this verse n of
James chapter 4 lament and mourn and
weep and let your laughter be turned
into mourning that's easy when I'm
telling jokes and let your laughter be
turned into morning and your joy to
Gloom verse 10 humble yourself in the
sight of the Lord Lord and He will lift
you up here's the thing critical Grace
Theory says those who receive Grace are
unhappy and know
it theoretically Grace is critical
because it is for the
unlawful Isaiah
53:5 but he was wounded for your
transgressions that means to break a law
to
transgress to go across a law
transgressions he was bruised for your
iniquities those are sins the
chastisement for our peace was upon him
and by stripes we are healed see the
lawful those people who think they're
keeping the law the lawful do not need
God's mercy and Grace as much in their
minds in Matthew 7: 22- 23 says this
many will say to me in that day Lord
Lord have we not prophesied so he been
doing good stuff in your name cast out
demons in your name been doing good
stuff and done many wonders in your
name and then I will declare to them I
never knew you you didn't understand
anything you didn't understand it was by
Grace you didn't you never got it you
never got it you always thought you were
going to get there by what you he said
you thought you mean I was your lord I
was never your Lord because you wouldn't
receive the message and then I will
declare to them I never knew you depart
from me you who practice
lawlessness wow SC yeah see critical
Grace Theory says those who receive
Grace are the
unlawful and know
it do you know
it
theoretically Grace is critical because
it is for the
Unfaithful you don't need Grace if
you're not unhappy or you're not
unlawful or you're not
Unfaithful you see you need Grace when
you're aware that you are you see the
thing is though is that you go to church
a little while and you get to thinking
that's not me anymore I'm I don't have
that problem anymore as if you stop
sinning Isaiah 53:6 and we like sheep
have gone astray all we like sheep have
gone astray we have turned everyone to
his own way and the lord has laid on him
the iniquity of us all oh well that's
what I did before I became a Christian
and you keep telling yourself that
because you know you're lying but you go
ahead you tell yourself that see the
faithful those who see themselves as
faithful do not need God's mercy and
Grace as much in their
mind Matthew 5 verse 19 says this
whoever therefore breaks one of the
least of these
Commandments doesn't have to be a big
one breaks one of the least of these
Commandments and teaches men so should
be called least in the Kingdom of Heaven
but whoever does and teaches them he
should be called great in the Kingdom of
Heaven that would really be wonderful if
he did everything it says in Luke 16:10
it says he who is faithful in what is
least is faithful also in much so if you
take those two together a man who does
the least things do do anything wrong in
his life at
all and we know better
do so critical Grace Theory says those
who receive Grace are the
Unfaithful who also know
it number
next theoretically Grace is critical
because it is for the
undesirables listen I'm in Isaiah CH 54
now Isaiah 54: 6-8 for the Lord has
called you like a woman Forsaken and
grieved in spirit now I hope you haven't
experienced this ladies but there isn't
anything much worse than for a man to
cast you aside you've done nothing
wrong you were a good wife a good
mother and he cast you to the road it
happens it happens
you treated as if you're not
desirable for the Lord um let me read it
again for the Lord has called you like a
woman Forsaken and grieved in spirit
like a youthful wife I mean a young
beautiful wife when you are refused I
don't want
you says your God verse seven for a mere
moment I have forsaken you but with
great mercies I will gather you verse
eight with a little wrath I hid my face
from you for a
moment with Everlasting kindness I will
have mercy on you says the Lord your
Redeemer let me
explain we're all
undesirable but we think we're
desirable the desirable do not the ones
who think they're desirable I've had
I've had people tell me oh I know I've
had a woman tell me I know I'm beautiful
you know what that makes you want to do
is find a
fault
sorry the desirable do not need God's
mercy and Grace as much in their
mind hoseah 3:1 then the Lord said to me
this is to the prophet go again and love
a woman who's loved by a lover this is
his wife that had left him and has run
off with another man who's treating her
as a
prostitute go again and think about that
just a second gentlemen your wife leaves
you for another man and then he turns
her into a
prostitute and the Lord send you a
message now go get her
back and then the Lord said to me go
again and love a woman who is loved by a
lover and is committing adultery just
like the love of the Lord for the
children of Israel who look to other
gods and love the Risen Kates of the
pagans he saiding that's what I do for
people who leave me all the time I love
the undesir
bles critical Grace Theory says those
who receive Grace are
undesirables and know
it do you know
it
theoretically Grace is
critical because it's for the
unrighteous Isaiah 55 this is a very
famous passage and most people have
interpreted it about your intelligence
comparing your intelligence to God's
intelligence that's true but that's not
what the passage is about God's
intelligence is like the heavens above
and yours like here down on the ground
he's that much smarter than us that's
true and that's not what that pass
means read it in context of what we've
been reading now so in context of what
we're reading about is Grace the
discussion from 53 54 55 is about Grace
and love 55 verse 7 it says this let the
wicked forsake his ways and the
unrighteous man his thoughts who's God
reaching out to the unrighteous let him
return to the Lord and He will have
mercy on him and to our God for he will
abundantly pardon and listen to what he
says now for my thoughts are not your
thoughts you begin to catch on now nor
are your ways my ways says the Lord for
as the heavens are higher than the earth
so are my ways higher than your ways and
my thoughts than your thoughts what he
saying is I don't love like you love I
love a lot harder and stronger than than
you love you never love the way God
loves at your best when you were looking
at your wife or looking at your husband
and saying oh I'm so happy I just would
do anything for you you don't even know
what love
is his love is so far above our love and
so when you sit around and say well God
would never save that person when you
dare to think you can speak for God
because you think your little pea brain
can figure out the love of God and you p
is loving if not more loving than God
and that you know that God would never
save that guy over there when you decide
that you realize how ridiculous that is
listen to another scripture it is Psalm
103:1 for as the heavens are higher
above the Earth so great is his
steadfast love toward those who fear
Him what I'm trying to say
is he loves the unrighteous but the
righteous the ones who do all the things
right you know they go to church they
sing without an instrument and you know
they do all the things right the
righteous do not need God's mercy and
Grace as much in their
minds Isaiah
64:6 but we are like an unclean
thing and all our righteousness are as
are like filthy
rags we all fade is a leaf and our
iniquities like the wind have taken us
away all the righteous things I've ever
done all the righteous things you've
ever done compared to his
righteousness it's
filthy so iCal Grace Theory says those
who receive Grace are the unrighteous
and they know
it theoretically Grace is critical
because it's for the unfriendly those
unfriendly to the cause of Christ in
Romans 11 beginning at verse 28 it says
this concerning the gospel they are
enemies talking about the Jews at this
particular time actually they are
enemies for your sake so it's actually
to your benefit that the Jews are aren't
receiving the gospel right now did you
know
that you wouldn't even be saved right
now if it wasn't true so it's to your
benefit that they rejected Christ and
killed him and then rejected him even at
this
moment concerning the gospel they are
enemies for your sake but concerning the
election they are beloved
wait wait on it let your brain filter
through
it for the sake of the fathers it's
Abraham verse 29 for the gifts and the
callings of God are irrevocable God
doesn't change his mind about who he's
going to
bless verse 30 for as you were once
disobedient to God yet have now obtained
Mercy through their Disobedience wow so
if they hadn't disobeyed I wouldn't be
receiving Mercy that's right verse 31
even so these also have now been
disobedient that through the mercy shown
you they also May obtain Mercy wait a
minute what we're in the same
position yep for God has committed them
all to
Disobedience
Rebellion
enemies us too
yeah that he might have mercy on all now
here's the thing he can have mercy on
whoever he wants now think about that it
might not suit you that he saved some of
them but you know what he's not going to
ask
you and it ain't none of your
business the friendly do not need God's
mercy and Grace as much in their minds
well I've been I've been on God's side
all my
life reminds me of a joke or two
but Isaiah
clearly says in Isaiah 651 and2 I was
sought by those who did not ask for me
what you ever read
this I was found by those who did not
seek
me how does that happen I said here I am
this is the Lord here I am here I am to
a nation that
was called by my
name and I stretched out my hand all day
long to rebellious people you read The
Exodus who walked in a way that is not
good according to their own thoughts
kind of like Paul you know what was he
doing was he the friend of the Gospel
when Jesus reached out and
said hey Paul well his name was Saul
Saul why you persecuting me was he a
friend of the
Gospel
no so critical Grace Theory says those
who receive Grace are the unfriendly to
the gospel
and know it do you know
it number
next there we go last one
theoretically Grace is critical because
it's for the unbelieving what are you
saying grace is extended to the
unbelieving
absolutely
absolutely I don't understand this Rex
right I know haven't read it let's let
me read the passage first
1:
12-6 and I than Christ j this is Saul
remember Nam Paul now we just talked
about him a second ago and I thank
Christ Jesus our lord who has enabled me
because he counted me faithful putting
me into the ministry verse 13 although I
was formerly a blasphemer a persecutor
and an insolent man but I obtained Mercy
because I did it ignorantly in get it
the word
unbelief God reached out to him with
Grace when he was in his
unbelief verse 14 and the grace of our
Lord was exceedingly abundant with faith
and love which are in Christ Jesus this
is a faithful saying and worthy of all
acceptance that Christ Jesus came to the
world to save Sinners of whom I am chief
uh we all should be able to say that
however for this reason I obtain Mercy
that in me first Jesus Christ my might
show all longsuffering as a pattern so
I'm a pattern to everybody look at what
happened to me Paul says and you know
what's going to happen to you to those
who are going to believe on him going to
believe didn't believe at the time that
the grace reached out to him but going
to believe for everlasting life so the
believing do not need God's mercy and
Grace as much in their
minds John 16: 30 32 says this by this
we believe that you came forth from God
he says verse 30 verse 31 says Jesus
answered them do you now believe listen
to that this is what he said now as
Apostles said now we've seen this we now
believe you came from God and Jesus
looks at him say oh really you now
believe y you you now you don't believe
that's what he's saying you now do do
you now believe verse 32 in indeed the
hour is coming yes has now come that you
will be scattered each to his own and
will leave me alone and yet I am not
alone because the father's with me let
me tell you something I guarantee you
you don't believe as much as you think
you do wait until you're in that
hospital room when you're about to die
wait until that pain strikes you so deep
that you can't move wait until there's
nobody come to see you or check on you
nobody from the church prayed for you
you're all alone in the night
wait for it let's see how deep your
faith is then this business is about oh
I believe yeah well let's see you in a
tough
situation at some point you need to
recognize you're barely hanging
on critical Grace Theory says those who
receive Grace are the unbelieving and
know it I know we don't have much faith
when do you think Jesus said oh ye of
little faith so
often here's a lesson critical Grace
Theory theoretically Grace is critical
why is it so critical because this is
who it reaches out to it reaches out to
those who are unhappy and know it those
who are unlawful and know it to those
who are Unfaithful and know it to those
who are undesirable and know it to those
who are unrighteous and know it to those
who are unfriendly to the gospel and
know it to the unbelieving and they know
it why because because that's the humble
you remember that verse we read a moment
ago God extends Grace To
Who The Humble not the people who say I
don't do anything
bad well you don't need much grace
in some of you never had to deal with
anti-race oriented
legalist and they're sitting in this
room right now just chomping at the bits
to probably have an argument with me
years ago youth Minister decided to show
his youth group a missionary
film it was safe some of you ain't even
going to understand this so hang on just
a second it's a black and white
religious oriented movie you haven't
been in church long enough probably to
understand what I'm fixing to
take anyway so he presented this
missionary film to his youth group the
projector had even been off an
hour before group of church
leaders called him into a
meeting this is their question did you
show the young people a
film the fact that that might not be
getting you right now indicates how long
you've been a Christian not very long
well yes I did he
said we don't like
that he said well I remembered that at
the last missionary conference our
Church showed
slides one of the church officers raised
his hand and says if it's
still and not moving it's fine if it
moves it's
sin you can show slides but when they
start moving you're getting into sin
brother y'all don't remember that TV
used to be a
sin y'all don't remember that movies
were a sin do you none of y'all y'all
ain't been around long enough to fill a
thimble used to be a sin internet if it
had come in my generation way back then
there is no way any of you would be on
the Internet or using a cell
phone but that's not my
point my point is the legalism behind it
you don't know about
it except you justify it when you do it
now some of you struggle to believe in
the fullness of the grace that we have
in Christ but some of you never had to
deal with an anti-race oriented legalism
you don't know what it is you're
surprised that I even suggest it many
years ago give you one last illustration
many years ago a young preacher living
in Holland uh woke up early one Sunday
morning looked down and realized it's
snowing and realized the roads were all
blocked well he was the preacher young
preacher had to go preach didn't know
what to do well the good thing was that
the river which went past where he lived
uh connected to where the church
building was so he decided he put his uh
skates on and he just skate down the
river right so he did he skated down the
river got to church got there to preach
soon as the services were over there was
a meeting we need to talk to you young
preacher so I we saw you skating
on the holy
day see y'all don't even know about this
y'all going to go out to eat in places
you you don't know anything about
Chick-fil-A seems like an aberration to
you used to we used to roll up the
sidewalks on Saturday do y'all not
remember that and nothing was open on
Sunday do y'all remember what I'm
talking about I mean so that's the world
he lived in and so if you did anything
on Sunday you were in sin but not just
in sin but about to be excommunicated
from the church I once made the mistake
of mowing part of my yard on a
Sunday see some of you even I I can't
believe he did done on Sunday
soon so they asked him and
said after arguing about it because it's
thinking about firing him finally one
guy says well did you enjoy skating to
the church building and he says well no
he said well okay we won't fire you
then
some of you've never had to deal with
anti-race oriented
legalism it's still around it just looks
different now it's still here we still
have it it ain't going
away some of you struggle to believe in
the fullness of Grace that we have in
Christ if you could take that leap of
faith and Grace you could believe that
if you hear the gospel believe in Jesus
change your heart confess Jesus you
could be baptized your sins be forgiven
and then you might step back and say
well look at what you did you didn't do
anything you can still be saved God of
Grace wants to extend his grace to you
because he wants to save the worst of us
do you want to know who the worst of us
is it's a man who would dare to stand up
in front of you and tell you how they
ought to live and then going to have to
face the Lord over it so don't you worry
there's nobody in this room in a worse
position than I'm in
but I believe the grace of God has saved
me why don't you come if you need to
while we stand and while we
sing
