knowing deep and important truths is a
great gift let me give you an example uh
you want to know
something that can definitely make you
smile would you like to know something
that can definitely make you smile uh
it's your face facial muscles that's
what it does it the very religious very
religious know that they know the god
they
worship but they're a miss none of us
fully know
him the religious will attempt but fail
to worship the unknown God that's what
happens in this
text the very religious will build
unacceptable altars to the unknown God
and think they've covered all their
basis the very religious will worship
ignorantly the unknown God and the very
religious uh their unknown God
is maybe not the maker and Lord of
all but one that they've created
themselves and if you're not careful
that's what we do we invent the God we
want him to be rather than the one he is
Matthew
7:21 through 23 22 says many will say to
me in that day Lord Lord have we not
prophesied in your name and cast out
demons in your name and done many
wonders in your name and then I will
declare to them I never knew you depart
from me you who practice lawlessness let
me ask you a question who's more likely
able to know one us know him or him know
us and he says folks here he doesn't
know Matthew 15 7-9 verse 8 says these
people draw near to me with their mouth
and honor me with their lips but their
heart is far from me don't know them
quite as well as you think verse n and
in vain they worship me teaching as
doctrines the Commandments of men so
sometimes we really think we know God
and we
don't uh maybe being
religious maybe being
religious can actually be very
dangerous ain't that interesting let's
look at a couple of passages
Ecclesiastes 7:1 15 there is a just man
who perishes in his right righteousness
and then it says in verse 16 do not be
overly righteous nor be overly wise why
should you destroy
yourself Luke chapter 18 this is an
interesting statement Luke chapter 18
19-14 says also he spoke this Parable to
some who trusted in themselves that they
were righteous and despised others so I
know God and I'm in like Flynn with God
so I know I'm righteous dangerous
thought to have verse 10 two men went up
to the temple to pray one a Pharisee and
another a tax collector the Pharisees
stood and prayed thus with himself God I
thank you that I'm not like other men
extortioners unjust adulterers or even
as this tax collector I mean I bet
you've thought man I'm glad I don't do
that verse 12 I fast twice a week I give
ties of all that I possess and the tax
collector standing AAR off would not so
much as raise his eyes to haveen but
beat his breath saying God be merciful
to me a sinner actually in the Greek
it's the sinner verse 14 I tell you this
man went down to his house Justified
rather than the other for everyone who
exalts himself will be humbled and he
who humbles himself be exalted maybe the
people who think they know God don't
know God quite as well as they think
they know
him in phariseeism there's a recorded
prayer of a certain Rabbi which runs
like this let me read it to you I thank
thee oh Lord my God that thou Hast put
my part with those who sit in the
academy and not with those who sit at
the street corners for I Rise early and
they rise early I Rise early to the
words of the law and they rise to Vain
things I labor and they labor I labor
and receive a reward and they labor and
receive no reward I run and they run I
run to the life of the world to come and
they to the pit of
Destruction are you
sure uh there's a record from Rabbi
Simeon Ben jaai who once said if there
are only two righteous men in the world
I and my son are those
two if there is only one I am
he
maybe we do not even know God as well as
we seem to think we do from time to time
maybe the God we think we know does not
exist except in our
dreams maybe we all need to be reminded
of what
the God is really like and that's what
I'm going to try to do
tonight in our text are seven truths
that if you just read through them you
might have missed them they're truths
that kind of shock us when we really
think think about it but they're right
there in front of you and I want to walk
you through them so maybe maybe just
maybe we will know a little bit more of
what God's really like this God that we
think we know might actually still be
the unknown God to us so let's try to
make that a reality number one maybe we
do not know the God so big he cannot be
packaged he doesn't dwell in this
building and he doesn't just dwell in
you he cannot be packaged listen to what
he says beginning of verse 22 then Paul
stood in the midst of the AR Opus and
said men of Athens I perceive that in
all things you're very religious for as
I was passing through and considering
the objects of your worship I even found
an altar an altar this inscription to
the unknown God by the way they found
many of those even to this day they're
still usually small therefore the one
whom you worship without knowing him I
Proclaim to you God who made the world
and everything in it since he is Lord of
Heaven and Earth does not dwell in
temples made with hands that's affirmed
in First Kings 8:27 you can't put God in
a
box you can't there is no box you say
well then he dwells in the universe
actually no it's not that small you
can't hem him up in the
universe he made the
universe maybe we do not know the God's
so big he cannot be served maybe that's
a problem have you thought about it
verse 25 nor is he worship with men's
hands as though he needed
anything since he gives all life breath
and all things nothing we've done here
today has made him any more
glorious nothing we've done here today
has made him
better nothing we've done here today
could he not have lived
without we don't serve him that way he
doesn't need
us we need
him you cannot serve him that
way maybe we do not know the God so big
he cannot be
circumvented you can't stop what he's
doing if you can never figure out what
he's doing that's pretty cool but you
can't can't stop what he's doing
whatever it is in Acts 17:26 it says and
he has made from one blood every nation
of men to dwell on all the face of the
Earth whether you know it or not we all
came from Adam it doesn't matter what
color you are or where you from we all
came from Adam and Eve just two people
that's where we came from we're all
Brothers we're all just the same blood
but listen to the rest of this and he
and has determined their preapp
appointed time
he decided long before you existed long
before those nations were there they
pre-appointment
times and the boundaries of their
dwellings much of that's uh by rivers
lakes mountains but he appointed all
that you didn't appoint it none of us
did it none of us made any of the
landscape so we couldn't possibly do
that so literally maybe we don't know
the god that's just so big that can't be
circumvented you can't stop his plan he
will do what he intends to do and that's
all there is to it and nothing we do
changes
it there's a thought in it so you can't
package him you can't really serve him
and you can't really stop him or
circumvent what he's
doing
there we
go maybe we don't know the God so big
that he can't be ignored I know you
think that people ignore him all the
time but the very fact that atheists get
upset about him is an indicator that you
can't ignore him think about it just a
second nobody can ignore him why are
they arguing about it what difference
does it make to him if he doesn't exist
why don't you just ignore him verse 27
says so that they should seek the Lord
Lord in hope that they might grope for
him and find him though he's not far
from each one of us here's the truth
there's evidence of him popping up
everywhere you can't go anywhere you
can't do anything that there's not
evidence of God you go outside tonight
after church and watch the sunset get up
early in the morning once the sunrise
look at the flowers blooming look at the
flowers dying look at the changes of the
seasons everybody thinks they know the
future oh we're all going to get too hot
and then the world will changing we'll
all die oh no here's the truth there's
going to be cold winter summer it's just
going to always be that way until God
pulls a plug that's the way it's going
to be that's all there is to it and
nobody can miss it because we keep
bumping into it we keep we can't even
say what year it is without making
reference to
God you can't ignore
him
maybe we don't know the God so big he
cannot be
denied he can't even
deny that he
exists look at verse 28 for in him we
live and move and have our being as also
some of your own poets these are people
who don't believe in God some of your
own poets have said for we are also his
offspring now Paul's quoting two
different uh poets in Greek culture one
was a uh EP
I'm going to try to again Epi mes who is
a Greek poet from the 600 BC who's also
quoted in Titus 1:12 it means in him we
live and move and have our being he also
quotes another one that's called arus uh
who's a stoic poet from Sicily in 315 to
204 BC in a line we see uh this
statement made for in some famous work
for we to or his offspring so in two
places two different poets have made
reference to the fact that we're the
children of God we can't really deny I
mean if you look inward let's just say
if we just study medicine for just a
moment anybody that studied medicine
knows there's no way that your body is
an
accident that's just
foolish absolutely foolish to think that
as complicated as you are and how the
systems work within you your liver alone
does over 500
things you are so complicated it's not
even funny we got ain't got to your
brain your heart and everything you are
a complicated piece of
Machinery you can't be denied we are
special to this world anybody that says
humans aren't special to this world or
are too I've hugged too many trees you
cannot deny that he exists and that we
are his
offspring maybe we do not know the God
so big he can't be defined and that is
true that anybody ever tries to Define
him are wrong for doing that that's the
reason even in this lesson I can't
Define him for you somebody says oh well
we know God I cannot Define God for you
you want a definition of God you're
going to have to talk to God unless God
gave us the definition it is
inappropriate because I'm not to make
any Graven image
I'm not to give you an image and say
that's it I closest I can come is Jesus
that's it look at Jesus that's all I got
but that's not a Graven image but verse
29 of this text says therefore since we
are The Offspring of God we ought not to
think that the divine nature is like
gold or silver or stone or something
shaped by the art and man's devices even
if it's not made of those things man
can't design something he can't write an
article you say well that's different
than you can't write an article that
describes God
properly you can't have a sermon you
can't have a class that describes God
adequately you can describe maybe a
aspect of him but even when you're
describing the aspect of him you don't
fully understand what you just
said you don't know
Infinity how do you discuss Infinity H
how do you discuss Unlimited
there is no way to do it it's just above
us
all so it's beyond us
finally maybe we do not know that God's
so big he cannot be
avoided you can't get away from him
verses 30 and 31 says this truly these
times of ignorance God overlooked but
now commands all men everywhere why all
men everywhere there's no place you can
run from him all men everywhere to
repent because he's appointed a day I
don't know what day that is but there is
a day it's on the calendar somewhere and
God knows what it is I don't even know
if Jesus knows yet I don't even know
that somebody says well I'm sure he
knows now I don't know that I don't know
anything about that I'm just telling you
he didn't know it when he was here he
didn't know the day because he is
appoint that's the thing by the way all
you who think that Jesus predicted the
end of the world when it would come
remember how could he predict the end of
the world and exactly when it would
happen when didn't know when it was
going to happen explain that one to me
so none of the prophecies we have in the
scriptures tell you exactly when the end
of the world's coming and anybody who
says difference lying to you trying to
sell you something must have some soap
in their pocket because he has appointed
a day on which he will judge the world
there is a day he will judge the world
everybody's answering to him in
righteousness by the man who has
ordained now Jesus is going to do it
Jesus will show up he has given
Assurance of this to uh all by raising
him from the dead and that's to everyone
so the whole world has heard of Jesus
and the whole world that's heard of
Jesus has heard he rose from the dead
and so there is going to be an
accounting to him and none of us can
avoid him the throne will be set up and
we will be
judged so the unknown
God we want to claim we know him but
quite honestly let's be honest now let's
be real
honest I know about
him I've heard
him I know about his
son but I'm afraid he's so different
than anything we've
imagined he's too
big you can't package
him you can't serve
him you can't circumvent what he's doing
you can't ignore IGN him you can't deny
him you can't Define him and you can't
avoid
him God is unknowable because of two
stunning truths here they are number one
God is
transcendent he is Spirit John
4:24 how do you hem up a spirit he's
invisible Colossians
1:15 how do you see the
invisible he is Holy Isaiah 6:3 that
means he's other than anything you know
he's other over
there and no one has ever seen him 1
Timothy
6:16 so you claim you know him you know
him inside and out I don't even know
some of you and I've known you for years
I don't know everything about you how in
the world am I going to claim that I
know everything about God that'd be a
little silly but more than that man's
ignorant at his best at our best with
this sitting in our lap and US studying
it it's hard as as we can we are still
ignorant what I mean by that well Isaiah
55:
89 his ways are not my
ways as the heavens are higher than the
earth so his thoughts higher than my
thoughts I can't even think on that
level I can't I can't think that way I
can't I can't love at his
level I can't be merciful at his level I
can't do it you say well you can try
yeah that's what we do right but I can't
do it I'm not him and I'll never be him
but the knowledge of God in Christ is
our greatest delight and reason that we
can be saved from our sin Jeremiah 9: 23
says let not the wise man glory in his
wisdom let not the Mighty Man glory in
his might nor let the rich man glory in
his R riches but let him who glories
glory in this that he understands and
knows me that I am the Lord didn't say
that you know me fully but you
understand and know that I am the
Lord that's what we can know he's the
Lord and I'm not it's like I heard this
uh Theologian that was a Catholic
Theologian and he came to the end of his
life and he was retiring from being a
theologian one of the greats and so well
what's one thing you could tell me
about God he says well here's what I
know there is a God and I'm not
him one day all of us will
know this slightly unknown God if you
can say slightly but we will know
him there's a story about a man named
David you probably heard this man named
David and he's working for his boss he
told his boss hey he's friendly guy he
says I know everybody B said yeah who do
you know I know everybody said yeah
right let give me an example so why I
know Tom Cruz really you claim to know
Tom Cruz yep no Tom Cruz well let's
prove it Hollywood's not that far away
let's get on a plane go there so they
fly down to Hollywood go out on the set
Tom Cruz on the set Tom Cruz sees Dave
says hey Dave come on over here and they
you know they talk around it's great
said but his boss's not convinced he
said well that's one off that didn't
mean anything me somebody else you know
he says well I know the president I know
Joe Biden really you know the president
we're going to Washington I don't
believe you so they fly to Washington
they get out on the lawn they come up to
the thing and and Biden's coming out to
give a speech and he and Joe goes hey
Dave come on over here and they go takes
him on a tour and he knows him and
finally says I I still don't believe it
I tell you what do you know uh Donald
Trump he said yeah man we're buds let's
go down to maril Lago I'm telling you we
can go so they fly down to maril Lago
and sure enough they're having a a golf
game some of you will appreciate this
they're all out on and and Donald Trump
says come over here and they got out
there and he actually plays around with
him and and he's in the crowd watching
and when Dave gets through he comes out
he can't find his friend finally finds
him he's in an
ambulance and he'd pass out he had a
heart attack they tell him and so they
look at said are you okay this Dave
asked him you okay you okay he said yeah
I was fine I was fine when I saw up
there that Donald Trump knew who you
were he says but what really killed me
there's a guy standing beside me he says
who's that orange guy with
Dave look I mean here we are we're at
church and all we're doing is trying to
tell you who God is and
and I'm wholly
inadequate there are no
words I can read what it
says but he's
just too
much he's too much
more that's a kind of a silly way of
introd introducing the idea that all
will know the Lord listen to some
scripture it will happen
you will know him I'm not saying you'll
fully know him even in heaven that may
not be
possible you might have to be God to
know God
fully Hebrews 8:11 says none of them
shall teach his neighbor and none his
brothers saying know the Lord For All
Shall know me from the least of them to
the greatest of them Isaiah 11:9 the
Earth shall be full of the knowledge of
the Lord as the waters cover the sea
habach
2:14 the Earth will be filled with the
knowledge of the glory of the Lord as
the waters cover the sea Isaiah
45:23 I sworn by myself the word has
gone out of my mouth in righteousness
and shall not return that to me every
knee shall bow and every tongue shall
take an oath so maybe getting to know
the unknown God is a lifetime experience
and when I say a lifetime I I mean an
eternal lifetime experience maybe
Millions from years from now will still
be learning about this God that we
thought we knew everything about maybe a
billion years from now will be saying
you know I never knew
that and our mouth will be hanging open
can you
believe I never knew
that and I'm
stunned I think it's like in Ephesians
2 it says in Ephesians 2 that in the
ages to come that's plural right the
ages to come he'll
reveal his grace to
us I think we've got a lot to
learn there's a lot more ahead and I'm
excited about getting to knowing him
better aren't you so we know a little
bit I want to know more amen so if
you've not given your life to the Lord
one of the best places to start is to do
that repenting of your sins confessing
the name of Christ being baptized we'd
like to help you do that if you've
wandered away we'd like to help you come
back if that's an issue but let's all
commit oursel to not giving up on church
not giving up commitment not giving up
on reading our Bible and praying that we
might learn a little more a little more
and a little more about this God that
transcends everything we know
but if you need to come come while we
stand and while we sing
