today's lesson is going to be very
different I've got about 10 young men
who are going to be reading scripture
today I won't be reading the scripture
today and so we're dealing with the
worst preacher that I know of in the
Bible aren't you glad to hear that Jesus
I assume was the greatest preacher that
ever was Matthew 7:28 says the people
were
astonished at his teaching so when you
sit there and go whoa okay that's never
happened in this congregation I promise
you but what it says about Paul in 2
Corinthians 10: 10 that his speech was
contemptible so we don't look to Apostle
Paul today because we want to learn how
to be articulate in speech we're looking
at Paul for very different reasons we're
going to consider several aspects of our
of his life if it's true
and it's only a kind of a guess but if
it's true that Paul was converted when
he was about
30 then we know that likely he at about
57 to 60 was mared for the cause of
Christ we don't know the exact time but
it's somewhere in that time period
because Paul was a Roman citizen at
least he claims that in Acts 22 and
verse vers 28 you could not treat him
the way you would treat a non-roman
citizen he was born in appropriate City
that allowed him to be a Roman citizen
and because he was a Roman citizen they
could not crucify
him tradition says that he was executed
by Nero in about 64 to
67 when he was
beheaded Adam Clark says is commonly
believed that when a general persecution
was raised against the Christians by
Nero both Paul and Peter then sealed the
truth with their blood at that time it
is believed that a noble woman a wealthy
woman called
Lucina buried him on her property beside
the aian
road but not in the catacombs but
there's no way to rely totally on that
but there's a pretty good indicator for
it it's called The Basilica of St Paul
outside the walls it's the church
building it stands on the spot where
many believe that Paul was actually
killed fellow disciples immediately
after his death erected a little
Memorial there they have a fancy name
for for it but basically it just means a
small building that you would normally
put in a grave uh yard but in this case
it's just a little building apparently
they they erected there like a little a
little house in honor of him but the
first Basilico was erected there in 324
long after he was dead so we're going to
look at three aspects of the great life
of the Apostle Paul and each time we're
going to ask one of these young men to
come up to the platform in front of me
and read scripture I think this is going
to be a blessing to us all I think
you're going to enjoy this I'm looking
forward to it myself so the Apostle
Paul's conversion is what we first want
to take a look at so we're going to look
at all of these scriptures let me
encourage you take your Bibles out read
along with us in this process I intend
to do the same thing I've got my Bible
here I want to encourage you to read so
for seven years after the cross roughly
we find that Paul is converted somewhere
around 37 to 40 ad is when we believe
Paul was converted so first we're going
to look at what Luke said about Paul's
conversion okay so turn with me to Acts
chapter nine our reader is going to be
Kyle Lewis turn with me to acts 9: 1-22
while Kyle comes to reading for
us good morning
morning but Saul still breathing threats
and murder against the Disciples of the
Lord went to the high priest and asked
him for letters to the synagogues at
Damascus so that if he found any
belongings to the way men or women he
might bring them bound to Jerusalem now
as he went on his way he approached
Damascus and suddenly a light from
Heaven Shone around him and falling to
the ground he heard a voice saying to
him Saul Saul why are you persecuting me
and he said who are you Lord and he said
I am Jesus whom you are persecuting but
rise and enter the city and you will be
told what you are to do the men who were
traveling with him stood speechless
hearing the voice but seeing no one Saul
Rose from the ground and although his
eyes were opened he saw nothing so he
led him by the hand and brought him into
Damascus and for three days he was
without sight and neither ate nor drank
now there was a disciple at Damascus
named ananas the Lord said to him in a
vision ananas and he said Here I Am Lord
and the Lord said to him rise and go to
the street called straight and at the
house of Judas look for a man of Tarsus
named Saul for behold he is praying and
he has seen in a vision a man named
ananas come in and lay his hands on him
so that he might regain his sight but
ananas answered Lord I have heard from
many about this man how much evil he has
done to your Saints at Jerusalem and
here he has Authority from the chief
priests to bind all who call on your
name but the Lord said to him go for he
is a chosen instrument of mine to carry
my name before the Gentiles and Kings
and the children of Israel
for I will show him how much he must
suffer for the sake of my name so ananas
departed and entered the house and
laying his hands on him he said brother
Saul the Lord Jesus who appeared to you
on the road by which you came has sent
me that you may regain your sight and be
filled with the Holy Spirit and
immediately something like scales fell
from his eyes and he regained his sight
then he rose and was baptized and taking
food he was strengthened for some days
he was with his disciples at Damascus
and immediately he proclaimed Jesus in
the synagogue saying he is the Son of
God and all who heard him were amazed
and said is not this the man who made
havoc in Jerusalem of those who called
upon his name and has he not come here
for this purpose to bring them bound
before the chief priests but Saul
increased all the M strength and
confounded the Jews who lived in
Damascus by proving that Jesus was the
Christ so this is Paul who had been
known as Saul who had been a
zealot destroying the church as our
brother Luke wrote about it Luke knew
Paul
he wrote this about him he continued to
write about him and this radical change
from being a Jewish Zealot to one who
preached Jesus now we're going to have
Tim Hernandez read acts 22 3 through
31
morning I am a Jew born in Tarsus of
salissa but brought up in this city I
studied under G
came to see me he was a devout Observer
of the law and highly respected by all
the Jews living there he stood beside me
and said brother Saul receive your sight
and at that very moment I was able to
see him then he said the god of our
ancestors has chosen
you to know his will and to see the
righteous one and to hear words from his
mouth you will be his witness to all
people of what you have seen and
heard and now what are you waiting for
get up be baptized and wash your sins
away calling his name when I returned to
Jerusalem and was praying at the temple
I fell into a trance and saw the Lord
speaking to me quick he said leave
Jerusalem immediately because the people
here will not accept your testimony
about me Lord I replied these people
know that I went from one synagogue to
another to imprison and beat those who
believe in
you and when the blood of your martyr
Stephan was
shed I stood there giving my approval
and guarding the clothes of those who
were killing him then the Lord said to
me go I will send you far away to the
Gentiles the crowd listened to Paul
until he said
this then they raised their voices and
shouted rid the Earth of him he is not
fit to live as they were shouting and
throwing off their cloaks and flinging
dust into the air the commander ordered
Paul to be taken into the barracks he
directed that he be flogged and
interrogated in order to find out why
the people were shouting at him like
this as they stretched him out to flog
him Paul said to the Centurion standing
there is it legal for you to flog a
Roman citizen who hasn't been found
guilty when the Centurion heard this he
went to the commander and reported it
what are you going to do he asked the
man is a Roman citizen the commander
went to Paul and asked tell me are you a
Roman citizen yes I am he answered the
commander said I had to pay a lot of
money for my citizenship but I was born
a citizen Paul
replied those who were about to
interrogate him withdrew immediately the
commander himself was alarmed when he
realized that he had put Paul a Roman
citizen in Chains the commander wanted
to find out exactly why Paul was being
accused by the Jews so the next day he
released him and ordered the chief
priests and all the members of the syen
to assemble and he brought Paul and had
him stand before
them so not only do you see that he
makes this radical change but that he
maintains his identity as a Roman
citizen didn't change that but look what
he actually does he's so radically
changed he immediately is baptized and
he does it in his mind he's washing away
his sins calling on the name of the Lord
It's critical in understanding now Alex
fernandz going to tell us more about
what Paul tells us through Luke in Acts
262-
23 while thus occupied as I journeyed to
Damascus with authority and commission
from the chief priests at midday oh King
along the road I saw a light from Heaven
brighter than the sun shining around me
with those who journeyed with me and
when we all had fallen to the ground I
heard a voice speaking to me saying in
the Hebrew language Saul Saul why are
you persecuting me it is hard for you to
kick against the
goats so I said who are you Lord and he
said I am Jesus who you are persecuting
but but arise and stand on your feet for
I have appeared to you for this purpose
to make you a minister and a
witness and a witness both of the things
which you have seen and of the things
which I will yet reveal to you I will
deliver you from the Jewish people as
well as from the Gentiles to whom I now
sent to you to open their eyes in order
to turn them from Darkness to light and
from power of Satan to
God that they may receive forgiveness
and sins an inheritance among those who
are Sanctified by faith in me therefore
King agria I was this I was disobedient
to the heavenly
vision but declared first to those in
Damascus and in Jerusalem and throughout
the region and throughout all the region
of Judea and then to the Gentiles they
should repent turn to God and do Works
befitting repentance for these reasons
the Jews seized me in the temple and
tried to kill me therefore for having
obtained help from God to this day I
stand witnessing both to small and great
saying no other things to those which
prophets and Moses would come that the
Christ would suffer and that he would be
the first to rise from the dead and
would Proclaim light to the Jewish
people and to the
Gentiles it's clear that
Luke absolutely belied this story he
wrote it down just like we see it here
and he does it these three times telling
this radical change that happened to a
man who was determined to eliminate
Christianity from the planet and now
he's proclaiming him now what we want to
do is look at four texts that are
actually Paul himself writing so these
are not Luke somebody filtering what he
said through this is Paul saying what
happened within him in his conversion
Galatians 1 13-23 Evan
klous if you will keep
turning for you've heard of my former
life in Judaism how I pers persecuted
the Church of God violently and tried to
destroy it and I was advancing in
Judaism Beyond many of my own age among
my people so extremely zealous was I for
the traditions of my fathers but when he
who had set me apart before I was born
and who called me by his grace was
pleased to reveal his son to me in order
that I might preach him among the
Gentiles I did not immediately consult
with anyone nor did I go to Jerusalem to
those who were Apostles before me but I
went away into Arabia and returned again
to Damascus then after 3 years I went to
Jerusalem to visit sephus and with him
for 15 days but I saw none of the other
Apostles except for James the Lord's
brother and what I am writing to you
before God I do not
lie then I went into the religious
regions of Syria and Sicilia and I was
still unknown in person to the churches
of Juda
Judah are in
Christ they only were hearing it said
he who used to persecute us is now
preaching the faith he once tried to
destroy and they glorified God because
of me so at first the church was really
skeptical about him and well they should
have been they thought maybe this was a
trick and so was he really changing but
they began to realize something had
changed in him and now Neil Epler is
going to read 1 Corinthians 15: 8-
11 this is Paul's
words and the last of all as to one who
ultimately born un untimely born he
appealed to me also for I am the least
of the Apostles and not fit to be called
an apostle because I persecuted the
Church of God by the grace of God I am I
am what I am and his grace toward me did
not prove vain but I labeled even more
than all of them yet that not I by the
grace of God was with
me whether it was then it was I all day
so we preached and so you
believed amen and then in Philippians
chapter 3: 5-8 Logan clous will read
again Paul's words himself of the
change circumcised on the eth day of the
people of Israel of The Tribe of
Benjamin a Hebrew of Hebrews in regards
to the law a Pharisee as phal
persecuting the church as legalistic
righteousness faultless but whatever was
to my profit I now consider lost for the
sake of Christ what is more I consider
everything a loss compared to the
surpassing greatness of knowing Jesus
Christ my lord for whose sake I have
lost all things I consider them rubbish
that I may gain
Christ
radical change when you
say 1 Timothy 1: 12-16 Luke
begs I think Christ Jesus our lord who
has strengthened me because he
considered me faithful putting me into
service even though I was formerly a
blasphemer and a persecutor and a
violent aggressor yet I was shown Mercy
because I acted ignorantly in unbelief
and the grace of our Lord was more than
abundant with the faith and love which
are found in Christ Jesus it is a
trustworthy statement deserving full
acceptance that Christ Jesus came into
the world to save Sinners among whom I
am the foremost of all yet for this
reason I found mercy so that in me as
the foremost Jesus Christ might
demonstrate his perfect patience as an
example for those who would believe in
him for eternal
life he saw his life as being the
perfect example that none of you should
ever doubt that you could be Sav no
matter what you've done it could not
begin to compare to what he had been
doing actually killing Christians and
trying to eliminate Christianity from
the planet you could never reach the
change that he made so you can make the
change you can be a Christian you can
change your life is the point of his
example we now want to go to a second
part of his life which was really Paul's
campaigns his missionary campaigns and I
want to just run through them we're not
going to read this section what I just
want to show you a map or two this
happened between 44 and 46 Paul was on
his first missionary journey it lasted
roughly a year it's recorded in Acts
13-4 and in that here's the image of it
he moves from Antioch to Cyprus and then
into uh southern Asia Minor and then
back to Antioch it is a year that you
see before you that's a year of his life
that he gave immediately after his
conversion and then the second campaign
that he goes on or second missionary
journey campaign is a
three-year campaign in Acts 15: 36
through chapter 18: 22 he crosses over
into Europe for the first time he passes
through several towns along the ignatian
way and he travels to cities of Athens
and Corinth in the Grecian Peninsula he
sails to Ephesus and cesaria and he
visits finally the church in Jerusalem
and then he returns back to Antioch of
Syria that took him three years of his
life so now he's used up four years of
his life in Mission work out there on
campaigns number next is clearly the
hardest thing to imagine but not only
did he go for a year these are this is
the three-year program you see up there
and you can kind of see how you might
spend three years on such a trip as that
of course today on a holiday you could
probably get around it in a couple of
three weeks but he spent time in each
one and that was in 49 to 52 ad in 52 ad
immediately after this he goes on
another campaign this is now his Third
campaign he hasn't been back long he
goes now on a trip that lasts 5 to 6
years and part of the reason it so was
so long as he spent three years in
Ephesus alone this is recorded in Acts
18: 23 through chapter 21 and verse 16
he goes from galatia and into friia and
then he goes to the great city of
Ephesus again and he spends three years
in Ephesus and in that time Ephesus was
a huge City and critical to the Roman
Empire he's teaching there there's a lot
of idolatry there and then he moves on
to Macedonia and AA strengthening the
Brethren and then he finishes by
visiting in Jerusalem those were the
campaigns that the Apostle Paul were on
Now what we want to do after you've
taken a look at how that's very similar
to The Campaign he was on just before
that
and most of those towns don't mean a
whole lot to you but this was Central
core of a lot of what was going on in
the Roman
Empire want to talk about maybe the
thing that you remember the most the
thing that you know the most about Paul
far and that
is what he wrote his
correspondence we're going to have 2
Peter chapter 3: 15 and 16 read by gonte
Solomon Jr sir
good morning
morning
um you can be sure the long waiting of
Our Lord is part of his plan to save men
from the punishment of sin God gave our
dear brother Saul the wisdom to write
about this also he wrote about these
things of all his in all of his
writings um some of these things are
hard to understand people who do not
have much understanding and some who are
not strong in the faith in the faith
change the meaning of the his letters
they do this to to the other parts of
the Holy writings also they're
destroying themselves as they do
this Paul wasn't a part of the original
12 as you well know and Peter was
probably the one of the smarter because
his Greek is excellent in first second
Peter it's his best Greek in the New
Testament smart guy but nobody knew the
Old Testament like Paul Paul's a scholar
Paul's the first converted scholar from
Judaism and so as a result we have a
different kind of writing than even
first and second Peter this is deep it's
scholarly that's the reason it's hard
for people who aren't very deep in their
faith to understand some of the things
so from 48 here's what I want you to get
from 48 ad he wrote continually
virtually every year and he may have
written more than this this is all that
we have okay so what we have is he wrote
a letter to a church at least virtually
every year until he was martyred now I
want to walk you through that I didn't
put it up here but I will tell you
something today liberal scholarship
tries to eliminate the new test that
lays in front of you they do everything
they can to try to repudiate it let me
tell you they they work long and hard
it's not true I'm going to read you what
they say about it but I don't believe
any of what I'm fixed to say okay let me
just walk you through it there might be
one thing I believe and I'll explain
that in a minute so Galatians was
written in 40 ad they believe that's
genuine uh first Thessalonians somewhere
between 49 and 51 they believe that's
genuinely written by Paul 2
Thessalonians which is 51- 52 is
actually in their mind inauthentic he
didn't write that uh 1 Corinthians uh
that's uh between 53 and 54 that's
genuine they they accept that second
Corinthians 55 and 56 they accept that
some guy named Paul wrote that Romans
55-57 they accept that he probably wrote
that Philippians 57- 59 or 62 and
there's that's about when he died issue
and they accept that as genuine phiman
they accept his genuine 57- 59 or 62
that's but Colossians they say no that's
inauthentic he didn't write that
Ephesians no that's too close to
Colossians he didn't write that which I
consider two of his greatest works by
the way and uh except for Romans uh 62
to 48 uh and then
First Timothy they say is a suit of
piger that's somebody else wrote it and
wrote their name in and said that they
were Paul that's 62 to 64 that's not
true that was him Hebrews is the only
one we really don't know but most people
believe he wrote it uh 63 to 64 and then
of course second Timothy they think is a
pseud oficer again because it's so close
to First Timothy and that's 62 to 65 and
then Titus 66 to 67 another pick for
because they're the same time I believe
every one of them written by Paul I have
a little iies about Hebrews but
everything's written by Paul it's
absolutely 100% true it's amazing how
people want to undermine Paul have you
figured out why remember the radical
change you see if you understand and
this really happened this radical change
what does that prove a fellow name Jesus
that's what it
proves so now the apostle Paul this is
what we looked at we looked at his
conversion the campaigns he went on and
his correspondence he means more to you
than you can
imagine even though he's not our
savior we're going to have two readers
now about uh Philippians chap 1: 12- 2
will be read by Noah
perpet but I want you to know Brethren
that the things which happened to me
have actually turned into the
furtherance of the Gospel so that it has
become evident to the whole Palace guard
and to all the rest that my chains are
in Christ and most of the brethren in
the Lord having become Confident by
chains and much more bold to the speak
the word without fear some indeed preach
Christ even with from envy and strife
and some from the goodwi the former
preach Christ from selfish ambition not
sincerely supposing to add Affliction to
my chains but to lather out to of of
love knowing that I am appointed of the
defense of only the gospel what then
only that in every way whether in
presence or in truth Christ is preached
and in I Rejoice yes and Will Rejoice
for I know that this will turn out of
Deliverance through their prayer and
Supply Spirit of Jesus Christ according
to my Earnest expectation and hope and
nothing I shall nothing I shall be
ashamed but with the boldness as always
so now only Christ will be magnified in
my body whether by life or for death for
to me to The Life of Christ and to die
is gain but if I live on in flesh and
will mean fruit my labor yet I shall
compose I cannot tell for I am hard
pressured between the two Desiring will
be Christ and a far better nevertheless
remain in the flesh more needful for you
and being confident of this I know that
I shall remain and continue with you for
all the progress and joy of
faith begin to realize the risk that he
was under all of his life once he became
a Christian then we're in Timothy 4 1-8
Jacob
purp now the spirit expressly says that
in latter times some will depart from
Faith giving heed to deceiving spirits
and doctrines of demons speaking lies
and hypocrisy having their own
conscience seared with a hot iron
forbidding to marry and commanding to
abstain from foods which God created to
be received with Thanksgiving by those
who believe and know the truth for every
creature of God is good and nothing to
be refused if it is received with
Thanksgiving for it is sanctioned by the
word of God and prayer if you instruct
the brethen brethren in these things
that you would be a good minister of
Jesus Christ nourished in the words of
faith and the doctrine of the good
Doctrine which you have carefully
followed but reject profane and old
wives fables and exercise yourself
toward godliness for Bly bodily exercise
profits a little but godliness is
profitable for all things having
Promises of life that now is and of that
which is to
come what's strange to me is that
anybody could know what we just looked
at and not believe that Jesus Christ
came to this
world that's the first thing what's
really strange is to see Christians
who walk away from what they believe as
if there wasn't evidence for what you
believed this is such strong evidence
that it takes and I don't mean any I I
don't mean any offense but it would take
a fool to look at this evidence and say
at least Paul believed
that and he was willing to not just risk
it all but die for
it
so much so is that true that a guy named
Bart
IR
professor of religious studies at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill he is considered the most elite
liberal scholar in America living
today here's what he wrote about
this and I'm telling you nobody doubts
his scholarship he does not
believe but listen to what a real
historian
says historians of course have no
difficulty speaking about the belief in
the resurrection of Jesus since this is
a matter of public
record it is a historical fact that some
of jesus' followers came to believe that
he had been raised from the dead soon
after his
execution we know some of these
Believers by name one of them the
Apostle Paul claimed quite plainly to
have seen Jesus alive after his death
thus for the historian Christianity
begins after the death of Jesus not with
the resurrection itself but with the
belief in the Resurrection The most
important thing to stress is that there
are two historical realities that simply
cannot be denied one the followers of
Jesus did claim that Jesus came back to
life if they had not claimed that we
would not have Christianity so they did
claim it moreover too they did claim
that they knew he rose precisely because
some of them saw him alive again
afterward so no one can doubt
that so thus the story of Jesus is
confirmed through the life of the
Apostle Paul if you've got doubts we
would be happy to study with you further
I think these gentlemen have done a
great job in just reading to you the
truth that cannot be denied and you
remember what Paul did we read it Acts
22:16 and maybe you should consider it
if maybe you believe if this has helped
you to believe if it's not you need to
repent but if it's helped you to believe
what hinders you what hinders you from
being baptized Acts 22:16 this is what
it says and now why are you waiting
arise and be baptize and wash away your
sins calling on the name of the Lord the
invitation is always yours if you would
be willing to make Jesus your Lord
because now you know it really happened
now you know he really arose from the
dead
he's your Lord will you accept him if
you will come while we stand and while
we
sing
