I've got this is a first of a three-part
series on Sunday nights really designed
around the idea of of helping elders and
deacons and preachers and
teachers and those potentially going to
go
there to think inside the box I know
you're familiar with the term outside
the box I'll show you why I take issue
with that terminology in just a
moment but um this lesson is about
preparation for the US ual unusual
leadership things you run
into uh the next one will be on
preparation for theological
friction because that occurs as well and
then preparation for organizational
Division and that occurs as well and uh
and that occurs even in congregations
that don't divide and have trouble so
you just need to be aware of that my
proposition for this theme is thinking
not Inside the Box in I mean is not the
normal thing but thinking outside the
box is the normal thing but actually
thinking outside the box is
unlikely I don't think any of us really
do it and uh it's likely unhelpful to
even use that
terminology and I'll show you why I
believe
that
um said that already this uh Drew Boyd
Psychology today thinking outside the
box a misguided idea says that the idea
of thinking outside the box originated
with a psychologist named JP gford back
in the 70s and conducted he conducted a
Creative Study probably many of you have
seen it it's nine dots you seen that the
drawing in the nine dots uh that's a
cute little thing but it's almost
meaningless he said uh one of guilford's
most famous studies was the nine dot
puzzle he challenged research subjects
to connect all nine dots using just four
straight lines without lifting their
pencil from the page today many people
are familiar with the this puzzle and
its solution most of you know what it is
in the 1970s however very few were even
aware of its existence the little puzzle
even though it had not had been around
actually for almost a century before
that so it's not really new at first is
first use was by psychologist NRF uh
mayor in
1930 Julian
beini author of the ego trick says the
fact that we can imagine something does
not prove that it is
possible the premise of this is I do not
believe it is possible to think outside
the box
I think that's just something we like to
think we think and we don't think that
Joselyn Campbell is that up there yeah
joshin Campbell speaker and author brain
power says the biggest problem with
thinking outside the box and the reason
it's a myth is that we can't actually do
it the Box in question is the mental
model that's created maintained and
updated by the unconscious part of our
brain we are always Inside the Box in
one compartment or another therefore we
can't think outside of it Martin Luther
King Jr is a good example of this for
example he he actually uh preached the
theme I have a dream more than once if
you followed him which I've listened to
quite a number of his speeches he
actually followed follow that I have a
dream many times you're most familiar
with it on the Washington mall that day
and what you may not know is that he was
actually Off
Script uh and so you might think he was
thinking outside the box because he was
off script but he was actually quite
Inside the Box because think about the
things he was actually advocating
country
equality
friends car
character and holding hands together
those are all things we all understand
we all know they're nothing outside of
our scope of understanding or our
thinking church
leaders uh do not need to be iconic
class that's not helpful and
iconoclastic thinking is not helpful but
inside the Box thinking is actually
helpful when you actually think what are
the parameters
of what we're supposed to be
about that's actually helpful the four
sides of the box that I'm going to give
you tonight are actually Jesus Peter
James and John what's interesting is
those things now I need to say that
there this whole thing the reason I'm
doing this is I want to prepare you for
conflicts there's going to be conflicts
I have seen conflicts within eldership
I've seen seen conflicts within the
deacons I've seen conflicts within
preachers I've seen uh song leaders at
each other's throat I have seen just
about everything I've seen men ask other
men out to finish the conversation
outside that's not something I've
imagined that's I've seen happen uh I
have seen
persecution uh I have seen opposition to
good works but by Good People opposing
good works uh I've seen hateful things
done toward Brethren and toward leaders
I've seen lies told uh I'm not talking
particularly about here I'm sure you're
probably thinking right here unless I'm
talking about Dwight no but
no no what I'm not really talking about
here is just experiences that I've had
you know I didn't I just wasn't born
just before I got here um I've seen
campaigns waged against people and for
things and uh it can get out of the hand
pretty quick so you need to know what
works inside the box of the church and
work with that the problem and this is
where I'm going with this the problem is
especially young preachers but all of us
because y'all are kind of like young
preachers even if you're old and by that
what I mean is your knowledge most of
your knowledge biblically and I'm not
trying to be ug or make fun of you or
any way I'm just most of your knowledge
biblical knowledge is about that of a
young preacher okay most of you that's
about where you are and so young
preachers though tend to think they know
a lot more than they do they graduate
schools and they tend to think they've
figured it all out I know I did thought
it figured it all out and all I need to
do is get to the church and tell them
and then it'll all be right you know it
didn't kind of work out that way
so I want to give you uh three areas
that I see Jesus working with Peter
James and John those four in their
little box in a unique setting and so it
looks unique so it looks unusual but it
is the usual unusual and the reason I
tell you this is because when the more
you get into leadership the more you're
going to bump into unusual
situations and those unusual situations
are not unusual they're just unusual to
you you've never been there and you
don't know what it's like until you get
there and that's just the way it is and
so I I want to walk through and and the
first
one is this one that is you need to be
exposed to the manifestations on
Mountain toop now what I mean by that is
when you first think you know kind of
that you know which you probably don't
is you don't really believe that the
spirit I'm just telling you where I was
don't didn't really believe that the
spirit did any
leading that that wasn't really the way
it happened I was pretty much a word
only and that was what I was trained in
I was trained in word only thinking uh
those were my teachers uh they believe
that uh books were written on the
subject
uh then the problem comes up that you
actually start seeing something uh
Matthew chap 17 is a good example
Matthew 17 if you want to go there this
the text up there verse one says now
after six days Jesus Took Peter James
and John the four sides of this
particular box his brother and led them
up on a high mountain by themselves
and he was transfigured before them his
face Shone like the sun and his clothes
became as white as light now we know
that story I don't have to go into it in
detail that's not the point of it but
one of the things you need to understand
is that you're going to encounter God in
Ministry you're going to see God do
stuff and you may not have thought God
did stuff but God does do stuff and but
I I have to tell you it's usually
private and by that what I mean is he
doesn't generally do stuff here boom in
front of everybody that's not what he
does he does Private things for you and
individuals within the people that you
take care of uh there's private
manifestations that are for you they
will affirm you and your faith they're
not really for everybody in fact if you
tell everybody what you've experienced
many will go yeah sure yeah sure all
right so that's going to happen to you
John
14:21 uh if you keep his Commandments
and you love Jesus he says that Jesus
and the father will manifest themselves
to you and so I think that's probably
one of those things that you may be
surprised at God do doing stuff that you
weren't expecting I can tell you quite a
few stories about just this property and
how we came to get it uh things that
happened that have allowed us to be
where we are right now but you know I
don't know that they would convince you
you're going to have to experience it
and believe me you will and the deeper
into leadership and Ministry the more
you will see that uh generally speaking
when you're young preacher you might not
even think that happens but it does and
it's not
unusual it's the usual
unusual then you'll be exposed to the
Miracles in Ministry in their homes
so I know I was trained that and I could
prove it I have several sermons on the
subject how I can prove that God doesn't
perform Miracles today and I think I can
prove that God doesn't doesn't perform
Miracles today except that he does and I
I was taught that God only worked
through
Providence and I was trained in that and
I thought I could prove that beyond a
shadow of a doubt until something
happens that you can't
explain and it has and it happens
virtually
instantaneously and then it's like
where' I placify that right and you'll
run into that and Ministry and let me
give you an example in this case and
then I'll go somewhere else with this in
Luke chap 8 I'm going to start in verse
51 it's still it's still the four guys
Jesus uh Peter James and John when he
came into the house he permitted no one
to go in except Peter James and John now
this is the uh leader of that synagogue
as you know and his child was sick or
had died uh he had died di actually and
Jesus goes in and and the father and the
mother of the girl go in and of course
Jesus raises her from the dead and he
also told the people on outside you know
she's just
sleeping
uh there will be things that will happen
that quite honestly there is no
explanation for ex except God uh markk
8:14 um you remember when it says that
they were they were concerned because he
made some reference to food and they
thought it was because he' forgot they
had forgotten bread and they're Crossing
uh the lake and Jesus said to them are
you really worried about that he said do
you not remember the 5,000 and the 12
baskets left over or the 4,000 and the
Seven baskets left over do you really
think that God has a problem in doing
whatever needs to be done to take care
of whatever situation you're in and but
again these happen in people's homes you
notice the text this happened in a home
and nobody else was there back to that
manifestation thing that's what's going
to happen you're going to see it you're
going to see somebody that should be
dead and they're not dead
and somebody that everybody said was
going to die and they don't die and they
get up and they get well and you're
going to see that many times through
Ministry and the more you get involved
in Ministry the more you will be stunned
and suddenly the turnaround somebody
that everybody said they're gone some of
you've been there by the way and just
flip around and it's just you're like
what just happened and I've seen the
other two everybody thought they were
alive as you know methusa and he's gone
so I'm just saying that you will be
exposed to what I can't Define it any
other way than a miracle because it's
stuff that there is no explanation for
that I can give but it happens in homes
and so it again it's not out there in
the public they're not like the Miracles
of Walking On The Water where
everybody's watching it's not like that
but it's clearly the work of God and
it's something that no could explain and
I don't know of a word that's better for
and and I'm and you say well it doesn't
happen instantaneously uh let me correct
you I've seen that too I've seen it
instantaneously somebody get well I'm
just so you can say whatever you want
believe whatever you want you just hav't
got deep enough in it you'll see it if
you get in deeper into
Ministry and then of course you'll be
exposed to the miseries in the midnight
Gardens I know when I uh you like to
think when you're a young preacher I
know I did that I could explain
everything and so I could explain
everything about suffering I remember I
came up with a list one time of every
reason that I thought anybody could
suffer I had a long list I had a lesson
or two on this whole series I had this
long list this is it there's the
definitive list uh and I also remember
at a time time when I I thought I put
that away and I said well there's no
reasons there no reasons for suffering
there's no explanation so at one point I
thought I knew all the reasons and then
in another point I thought I don't know
any reason I haven't got anything and
it's just kind of like that um here's
what I've learned uh still these four uh
Jesus Peter James and John Matthew 26
verse 37 and he took with him Peter and
the two sons of Zebedee and he began to
be sorrowful and deeply distressed this
is the night that Jesus was facing his
betrayal there's going to be moments of
bitter tears if you get into Ministry
listen I don't let me brace you you if
you get if you become an elder if you
become a
deacon if you become a Bible class
teacher if you push yourself to just get
involved more you're going to experience
some terrible
miseries I mean some really sad
stuff I mean like take your breath
away
like I can't breathe can I get out of
the
room I can't I can't take this it's can
be that
bad it's not easy to
watch and an 8-year-old die of
emphysema or to
bury a one-month
old there are things you're going to see
in Ministry that will make you weep
bitter
tears and some of them will be your own
failings like
Peter later Luke
2262 uh Peter denied Jesus three times
as you know and it says he went out and
wept
bitterly there's nothing like being in
Ministry and feeling like an absolute
fake
hypocrite there's nothing like
it nothing like feeling that bad about
yourself
nothing but if you stay in it very long
you will
at some point you will
so to lead
you to another place I believe it's all
inside the box and inside the box of
ministry and church and work you think
inside the box it's unusual but it's the
usual unusual stuff you're going to see
which are manifestations of God's work
that have nothing to to do directly with
you but are a part of the Kingdom there
are Miracles that you just shake your
head and say that had to be God there's
no other way and then there are miseries
that you're going to have to deal with
and that's the thing and and when I'm on
this series and this we're just
tiptoeing into it right now okay so as
we just tiptoe into it that's what
you've got to prepare yourself far that
if you think about getting deeper in
these are the the things that will make
your head
swim when you when you see God do
something you're going whoa or when you
see somebody healed you go whoa I didn't
think you did that kind of thing or when
you see miseries that just blow you away
you're like I thought God would step
in Kelly Ward wrote a song that Steve
Green made popular back in
1991 that doesn't seem that long ago to
me
now it says and I love it I've used it I
think before here it says in a hidden
the whole thing called a Hidden Valley
in a Hidden Valley just over the hill a
young Shepherd boy surrenders his will
as he lifts his voice and praise to his
King only the Lambs will hear and follow
as he sings in a Hidden Valley a
faithful one leads no one looking on he
he cares for their needs for he knows
the one who tries the heart so he's
steadfast and content just to do his
part hidden valleys produce a life
song hidden valleys will make a heart
strong
desperation can cause you to
sing hidden valleys turn Shepherds into
Kings in a Hidden Valley a leader is
born he has faced The Fierce and
weathered the storm so with humble heart
and love for his God he becomes royalty
with just a staff and Rod hidden
valleys produce a life song hidden
valleys will make a heart strong
desperation can cause you to
sing hidden valleys will turn Shepherds
into
Kings that's the
lesson that's the song do y'all remember
Star Wars back when it was
good what was the guy's name Chuck Lucas
was that it that George Lucas oh Chuck
Lucas that's a different one okay
okay you got to be a long time in the
church to get that
joke y'all don't get it oh never mind
all I ain't going any deeper into that
all right George Lucas so George Lucas
um uh
produced Star Wars the first one right
and then the second one what was it
called Empire Strikes Back and in Empire
Strikes Back you remember that Luke
makes this trip to the weirdest looking
little planet you've ever seen with this
weird little fell jumping around Yoda
he's a puppet now what can they do you
remember that you remember when uh he he
somehow senses that his sister and the
other guys are all in trouble on that
cloud planet and he wants to go rescue
them and he's only just now really
developing in the force you remember all
that it's all fantasy but I'm going
somewhere with this so you remember all
that right and he's going to
go and uh Yoda saying I don't think you
should
go and young Skywalker
says I'm not afraid
and Yoda like all you old
Yodas should say to Young
Luke's
yeah you will
be you will
be I
hope I didn't scare anybody
off I hope that you're willing to be
afraid I hope you're willing to take on
the
mle we need more
Elders you hear me that's not a
joke we're down to four and they ain't
all in good
health we need
more we need deacons that step up that
doesn't just have a position but do
stuff we need Bible class teachers that
doesn't fight with everybody but teaches
a class
and we need members who want to get into
Ministry and we need other members who
want to just help just want to
help it is
scary it's
scary but I remember having a
conversation I won't tell you who it was
but some of the elders may know who I'm
talking about here I remember having a
conversation several years years ago
with somebody that became an elder here
was an elder here for a
while I had this conversation with him
said uh but I'm afraid of the
responsibility I don't know if I'm up to
that
right and so I said to him I said so you
actually
believe that if you don't take this job
God will hold you less accountable when
you could but you won't do
it you are held accountable for what you
could do and you don't
do don't think you get out of it just
because you're scared to take on the
mantle it doesn't work that
way and it don't work this way well I
was afraid to become a Christian because
I didn't think I deserved it I didn't
think that I was good enough to obey the
gospel I didn't think I didn't think I
was scared I was afraid of being
baptized in front of everybody and
everybody seeing my nappy hair I I was
afraid whatever you're afraid of at some
point you got to recognize that you're
just as accountable whether you do it or
you don't do it you are accountable for
what you've been asked to do so maybe if
there's someone here as this afternoon
we had two baptisms maybe this some
someone here that realizes at this
moment it doesn't matter about the crowd
I will repent of my sins I will confess
Christ and I will be baptized for the
remission of sins we hope that that's
the case if if that's the case make it
known and we'll do everything we can to
help you even now while we stand and
while we
sing
