uh there was a man uh in kindy kidney
failure uh who needed some new kidney
obviously he's
29 and he went for dialysis three you
know people three to four times a week
to dialysis and if you know anything
about it you know that the day after
dialysis you're wiped out absolutely
wiped out but the next day you actually
have a really good day and you're you
feel just virtually normal for about one
day and then the next day you feel
terrible and then usually that day you
either have dialysis again or the next
day and that's pretty much standard you
might go that long you might not be able
to go that
long sometimes you have a half day and
then a half day of good
and but it's not a
cure until that person and I'm talking
about
gets a new
kidney all they're doing is treating the
symptoms which is purifying the blood
that doesn't resolve the problem another
man uh avoid doctors all he
could but he's feeling pretty miserable
so he finally went to a doctor went to
one of these little
clinics and the doctor quickly looked at
him says you have an ear infection a
sinus infection infection and a fever
here are some drops for your ears nasal
spray for your sinuses and antibiotics
for your fever you should be as good as
new and then about a week well a week
passed uh at first he felt felt a little
better but a week passed he felt worse
and he waited another week and he's
really feeling terrible and so his wife
got all over him again to get him to go
back to the doctor he didn't want to do
that he ended up going to the ER you
know how that is maybe some of you
waited that long that he had to go to
the ER so he went to the ER and he got
checked out the doctor fully checked him
out and he said well we found why you
aren't getting any better you don't just
have an ear infection and a sinus
infection and a fever what your real
problem is is that you have strep throat
and you need a heavy dose of penicillin
and then you need some other medication
and of course it's kind of a Mis diagnos
it wasn't totally missed but it was not
really dealing with a serious problem
that was behind it and and until that
was dealt with they really just dealing
with symptoms and so once that was dealt
with he got better just like that and I
bet you've had a similar experience to
what we're talking about here that
sometimes you're only dealing with the
symptoms now that can work for some
diseases I've heard that rabies for
example can be survived even if you
haven't got the shots but it is a
247 thing and you near nearly die anyway
and all they do is five the symptoms and
that's been done and people have
survived it but it's rare you generally
just go ahead and die a man had diabetes
for years and it was unchecked and if
you know anything about diabetes then
you know that it often affects your feet
and so he had severe feet problems but
he wasn't dealing with the diabetes he
just kept dealing with the feet problems
he went over and over again and he did
everything he could cuz he had heard you
know you could have your feet amputated
if they get bad enough and he was scared
to death of that and so he worked and
worked and worked but he wouldn't deal
with a real problem and finally he
decided you know to give in and admit he
had diabetes he just didn't want to
admit it he didn't want to deal with the
idea King ASA in the
Bible we don't know what it was but we
know he had a severe foot problem 2
Chronicles 6: 12 and 13 says and in the
39th year of his Reign ASA that's King
ASA ASA became became diseased in his
feet what that was we don't know may
have been diabetes we don't know and his
malady was severe yet in his
disease he did not seek the Lord but the
Physicians and then it says in verse 13
so ASA rested with his fathers and he
died in the 41st year of the rain that
means he lived three years with the
terrible foot malady that killed him or
whatever was causing the foot problem
killed
him so I guess what I'm really trying to
say is we all know this is true right I
mean we we we've seen this around us we
know I'm not saying anything you don't
know dealing with symptoms and not the
real problem is a
problem it's not
surprising but healing can happen we we
also know that but there isn't a a bull
a silver bullet for healing when you
have a problem the Bible gives several
things that are good ideas to do healing
can come through Physicians and medicine
I mean uh who gave the doctors the
wisdom that they have where did this
information ultimately come from It
ultimately comes from God who created
all these things right so ultimately
learning about that in Matthew 9 verse2
you know that passage Jesus says uh uh
well those uh those who are well have no
need of a physician but those that are
sick so going to a doctor is not somehow
an act of unbelief rather it's advice
even from Jesus himself it's a good
thing to do so doctors and
medicines work but not every
time uh healing can come through prayer
and Penance and Medicine a great passage
on that 2 Kings 21-7 you probably know
the story hezekiah's been told that he
will die Hezekiah asah has been told he
will die and not live right he's been
told that and so as a result uh he turns
his face to the wall and begins to cry
and to pray now what you may not realize
is that he's only about 30 years old at
the
time so he's sick he's going to die and
you're 30 right the king so basically he
turns his face to the wall men cry and
pray and he prays a really eloquent
prayer it's recorded in Isaiah it's
recorded in the Kings and he prays his
prayer and Isaiah the prophet's on his
way out of the the palace by the time he
gets to the steps the Lord sends another
message to him and and he told him to
tell him he's going to die and not live
and so he turned around and he goes back
and he says okay you're going to live
what you might not have paid attention
to in the text though other than that
that he's going to get 15 more years
right you all know that he put a pus on
the
king what do you need a pus for so he
got some medicine
too that's right it's in the text so
prayer Penance and some form of medicine
mixes in and then healing can come
through pity through prayer and Penance
you say what's pity have to do with it
it's up to God but it's Psalm 41: 1-4 if
you this is one of those passages these
two passages I've just giving you are
the to among the two or three passages I
give to anybody who gets a stage four
cancer
message I go to their home I'll tell you
I'll tell you these passages and Psalm
41 is one of the passage I'm going to
take you to but the other one is the one
there you know pray the other one's
James 5 I'm going to get the elders to
pray for me okay those are passages I
take you to those three I'm going to do
all three those but in Isaiah and what
he told the king a moment ago he said uh
set your house in order so I believe in
doing that too but right in this text
what suggested is is that if you have
been merciful to others and you have
been good to them and showed pity to
others that the Lord will raise you up
from your sick
bed and make you well again well that's
actually in there so here's what I'll
tell somebody who may be going to die
you're not going to be able to pay all
your medical bills
anyway why don't you do something nice
for
somebody you don't have to spend the
whole thing on them but learn to if you
haven't been doing something nice for
somebody find somebody that could use a
little hand and do something so that's
advice and I think it's in that text be
nice and then healing can come through
prayer and Penance James 51 13-18 w we
get into all that but basically the the
suggestion that healing is available if
we ask for the prayers of everybody and
U and we but in that text it also
mentions uh that if you've committed sin
you'll be forgiven so that suggests the
idea of maybe there's some sin in your
life that needs to be dealt with too so
those are all good advice Faith does not
deny the existence of symptoms no more
than David denied that Goliath was a
giant you have to face
reality and and when one's almost dying
taking care of you Philippians 2: 27 it
isn't a lack of faith to recognize it to
recognize that people do die they
recognize that people do get really sick
but faith and true Faith should look
deeper it may not be a medical problem I
know this comes as a strange sound but
sickness is not necessarily always a
medical problem it may be a sin problem
can't be a medical problem can't be a
sin problem can be a prayer problem can
be a depth problem it can be a mercy
problem those are all suggested in
scriptures there a reason some of these
things happen that may not be something
you like to hear but it's in the Bible
and and I'm not getting into it any
deeper than that but I I still feel like
we tend to just go after the symptoms
that that seem the easiest to
resolve and we may have missed the thing
that's really the
problem so what I'd like you to think
about
is I think we ought to ask oursel are we
treating symptoms and not causes I think
you should ask that when you're sick but
I think you should ask that every day in
your spiritual walk are we treating the
whs and not the wise in other words see
I'm treating a what I'm treating a
symptom if I'm treating the why I'm
trying to find out why this happened to
begin with and I think we need to learn
to do that are we praying to be better
in our symptoms or to be cured and get
at the root of the thing in John 5 and:
6 you recall the man that's sitting next
to that little Pawn that little pool and
Jesus walks up to him and he says um do
you want to get
well do you want to get well do you want
to get well spiritually you say well I'm
not sick spiritually
H maybe we're all a little bit for
example are we spiritually
overweight you know treating ourselves
with spiritual diets are you
listening I'm reading the books I want
to read that I like I'm listening to the
teacher I want to listen to we're going
through a little spiritual
diet but it may not be what we're eating
that's making us spiritually
fat it could be what's eating
us and binge binging spiritually won't
resolve us anything other than a symptom
it won't cure you many doctors visit uh
will treat the body for things in in
fact if you'll talk to doctors you'll
find out that a lot of what you go to
the doctor about is not what you're
there for I know that sound strange so
you can have mental stresses emotional
problems you can have soul issues and
he's treating you and your mental
attitude is what's really making you
sick and the way You' adjusting to it so
that happens whether we face it or
not from Jesus we learn to deal with
first things
first or at least we're supposed
to Matthew 5:24 first be reconciled to
your brother quit trying to reconcile
your brothers first you be reconciled to
your
brother Matthew 6:33 seek first the
kingdom of God and his righteousness
quit trying to get
rich
seek first the kingdom of God and his
right Matthew 7 ver verse 5 first remove
the plank from your on ey quit trying to
figure out what's wrong with everybody
else first figure out what's wrong with
you Matthew 22 37-38 love the Lord and
that's the first and the great
commandment love
God not love yourself most important
commandment is not love yourself most
important commandment is love the Lord
Matthew 23: 26 first cleanse the inside
of the cup in the dish priority I need
to clean me my heart up first before I
clean up my
Deeds so that's just some first and and
Jesus is clearly on that list of wanting
you to see the first from Jesus we learn
uh that we should be dealing with the
whse and not just the whs in the house
look at how many times he wants you to
think about the why Matthew 628 why do
you worry about your
clothing you ever answer that question
in your
heart why do you look at the spec in
your brother's eye you ever answer that
question in your
heart why are you fearful oh you of
little faith why why do you ever answer
that question did you ever think of when
you read that when you read it did you
think about trying to figure out why you
are that way why do you think evil in
your hearts why do you transgress in the
Commandments and the
Traditions why do you call me good no
one is good but God why are you going
down that path are you convinced he's
God why have you come Simon Snick some
of you probably know who that is Simon
Snick he's an author he he wrote a book
called start with the
why he had a TED talk about Apple and it
went viral kind of thing but ultimately
I just quote one little quote here every
single company on the planet knows what
they do
some people in companies know how they
do what they do but a lot of them don't
know why why is all about your purpose
why does your company exist and why
should anyone
care here's what I found Now you listen
to the lesson this morning uh I thought
Keegan did a great job listen to the
lesson basically is this we love to ask
God why but we don't like it when he
askk us why you notice that see ever
since I've been on this wine thing you
didn't really like this part of the
lesson so let's watch the great
physician focus on the whse and the
cures that's the lesson tonight we we'll
walk through this pretty quick because
we tend to deal with the
symptoms but not the real problems
number
one Jesus did not focus in this text on
the puncturing of the roof
but on the why why did this happen and
it's all about faith according to them
Jesus identifies faith is our greatest
panoply the the thing that's going to
really protect us is not that roof up
there the greatest thing that we've got
to protect us is our faith listen to
what he says again beginning Verse 18 I
won't read the whole thing brother love
it did a great job Verse 18 then behold
men brought on a bed a man who was
paralyzed whom they sought to bring in
and lay before him and when they could
not find how they might bring him in
because the
crowd they went up on the housetop and
let him down with his bed through the
tiling into the midst before Jesus so
they broke up the tiling verse
20 punctured a hole in the
roof when he saw their faith now imagine
all the the effort that they went
through to help this man find
Jesus and I I don't know if they use a
ladder but getting on a roof is not the
easiest thing for
me uh but carrying a man up onto a roof
sounds like a lot of
work being willing to break up a roof to
drop him in obviously that wasn't they
didn't just make it wide enough for him
to go down skinny they probably broke it
up enough so they could lower in with
four corners which probably almost the
size of a man which is pretty good size
hole in your
roof a couple of things you need to
think about because would Jesus have
found him
anyway would Jesus have healed this man
anyway there's a question in it uh I
think you need to know that Luke
19:10 uh he he came to seek and to
save I think you need to know John
4:23 suggests that he seeketh such to
worship him he's looking for people all
the
time but Romans 10 verse 20 says he's
found by those who weren't looking for
him how can you be found by somebody
that you're not looking
for he was looking for
you and then asks
18:10 I have many in this town hang on
Paul I got a lot of people in it but
there weren't
many and then 2 Timothy 2 and ver9 he
knows those who are his do you think the
Lord God did not know about this
man do you really think it took those
four men or this would have never
happened okay maybe I'm going somewhere
you don't want to go but fundamentally
here's here what I want you to get it
was faith and not the
puncture it wasn't what they did it was
the faith that made this
happen that's the
why why this story is important why it's
in your Bible why you need to pay
attention to it is because they had
Faith the great physician did not focus
on the puncturing but on the why which
is Faith that's the cure for the problem
in this text it is the cure the reason
the man is healed the reason that these
guys it's critical to recognize that
we'll get to some other parts about this
in just a moment that I'll show you a
different angle you need to see all
right number two Jesus didn't in this
story did not focus on the
paralysis you don't hear him discuss
it but on the why for the paralysis and
and this is this is not comfortable to
us
the why he goes to is
sin I mean that's the implication in the
text Jesus identifies sin as our
greatest paralysis you know what's
paralyzing you from not doing what you
ought to be doing sin you know what's
keeping you from being all that God
wants you to be it's sin it's not the
disease it's not the symptoms it's sin
sin is our problem and I think that's a
a hard sale for us let me read it again
beginning Verse 18 then behold men
brought on a bed a man who was paralyzed
whom they sought to bring in and lay
before him when he saw their faith verse
20 he said to him man your sins are
forgiven you what did that have to do
with
it what did that have to do with it you
telling me he said that for no reason
that that was automatically true
anyway no it was significant to this
story it was significant to that
man I think it rang a bell with the man
but what I think is interesting and and
I think you need to realize this this
man did not come to be
saved he came to be
healed how many people want to go to the
Lord to be healed but don't want to be
saved have no desire that wasn't in his
mind and those four men weren't trying
to save this man spiritually this man
thought all he needed was to be healed
how many of us feel that way if God
would just come through for me and give
me whatever it is that I want then I'd
be okay and what the real problem is is
that we have sin problems and we're not
willing to admit that we're not willing
to deal with that we don't even want to
think about the fact that maybe I need
to be
forgiven maybe there's something really
wrong with me right now and that's at
the root of all my problems I don't want
to admit that because I just don't
believe that I don't I mean the Book of
Job doesn't have anything to do do with
his sin let me get back to that in just
a moment maybe that's an
overstatement uh Genesis
36-19 have you ever asked yourself this
question this is on Adam and Eve right
you know you ever asked this question
about Adam and Eve when did God mention
that if they ate of the tree of of the
knowledge of Good and Evil that you'd
have problems in pregnancy when did he
ever mention that thorns and thistles
would come up to them when did he ever
bring that one
up huh what do you told him is that die
he never mentioned
that think on that just a minute and
we'll get back to that Concept in a
minute John 5 and verse1 14 John
5:14 he says to a man sin no
more lest a
worse thing come upon you but sin
there's no connection between sin and
trouble really what do you think we're
in the mess we're in the garden all the
problems we have are connected to sin
not a one of our problems is not
connected to sin every bit of surf of
suffering on the planet is directly
connected to our sin we committed in
Adam and
Eve John chapter 9 1 through 3 uh and
then verse
34 you know they say well was it this
man or his parents that sined that he'd
be born blind right well this man hadn't
done anything because he' had been doing
it in the womb maybe he was just a bad
boy in the womb punching his mama too
much I you
know or was it his mom and dad that did
it folks it was to some degree you know
his mom and dad all the way back to Adam
and Eve we've all sinned and Trouble
Comes and yeah I
guess yeah but it that's not what's
happening in the text but then but
that's what that's the natural thing
you've got to go well I mean if God's
just is obviously couldn't be like that
so verse 34 he says you were holy born
in your
sins
well yeah so are you
in that context but that's not what's
going on there in Luke 13: 1-5 and this
terrible thing happens terrible thing
happens to these guys uh blood is mixed
with their sacrifice right and they die
and then another group The Wall falls on
them and oh it's just terrible terrible
things and so he says you think these
people were the most wicked people
that's ever been because of this
horrendous thing that's happened to
them and I tell you no
you're the most wicked thing you've ever
run
into and except you
repent you'll all likewise
perish but we don't hear
that no that's not us sin isn't our
problem job 42: 7-10 do you remember
what happened to job everybody knows the
story of job you know the end of the
story of Job when is job restored his
friends God tells him your friends they
don't know what they're talking about
they should have kept their mouth shut
they said things they shouldn't have
said now you go and ask job to pray for
you so that you can be
forgiven and only after job prayed for
them was He
restored job needed to pray for his
friends
okay so the great physician did not
focus on the paralysis but on the why
sin we don't tend to do that anymore we
don't even like talking about the word
sin you don't even hear sin much
mentioned anymore have you noticed we
don't like talking about it can't be sin
sin's not my
problem dealing with the symptoms but
not the real problem my real problem one
of our major problems is the lack of
faith one of our real problems is the
presence of
sin those are the wise folks I mean
let's just get real just for a minute
and be real honest with ourself even if
we're not going to be real honest with
everybody else number nine okay last
thing Jesus did not focus on the
presence of these guys who the scholars
the guys that are present who actually
knew the Old Testament really well they
were the they were teachers that had
come and and they were there he didn't
focus on oh oh I'm so glad you're here
oh I feel like we're really having a big
service tonight because look how many's
here and you've come out and man I'm
glad you're here no that's not what
happens but he focuses on the why why
are you here and he focuses on their
judging Jesus defined judging as our
greatest
profanity did you hear
that our greatest
profanity is judging one
another listen to it in this text
beginning in verse
20 when he saw their faith he said man
your sins are forgiven you and the
scribes and the feses scribes were the
teachers of the law Pharisees the most
radical right-wing if you will group out
there and began to reason saying who is
this who speaks blasphemies who can
forgive sin but God alone so he's is
accusing Jesus of blasphemy now you got
to remember they were there to do this
that's why they came uh verse 22 but
when he perceived their thoughts he
answered and said to them why are you
reasoning in your
hearts which is easier oh that's such a
great question which is easier to say
your sins are forgiven you or to say
rise up and
walk which one is easier do you
know
verse 24 but that you may know that the
son of man has power on Earth to forgive
sins he said to the man who was
paralyzed
um I say to you
arise take up your bed and go to your
house immediately he rose up before them
took up what he had been lying on and
departed to his own house glorifying God
and they were all a
I would be too wouldn't you and they
glorified God and were filled with fear
I like that they were that's probably
the best part of this not just amazed
anybody be amazed at anything you'd be
amazed at somebody doing a card trick
but they were filled with fear saying we
have seen strange things today and
that's a comment that's
interesting now listen to me now and
this is really important imagine all the
effort to accuse him
and not hear Jesus literally in what
he's
saying they were
there to judge his
message not to hear
it you think that ever happens at
church and we spend the whole time
evaluating the message rather than
hearing
it
well I give him an a no he's got a B oh
that was bad that's a C or
D imagine that in Mark 3 and verse two
they watched him to see if he would heal
on the Sabbath day Luke 6 and verse 7
they watched they showed up in droves
just to what let's see what he'll do
Les's let's watch his
words do you know how many members I've
run into that that's all they
do they haven't heard a sermon in 20
years they're there to find fault with
whatever is spoken they are the
judges they've come to judge a lesson
not to hear a lesson they're not there
to learn they think it's their duty to
critique you know you know that's true
because even what Keegan said this
morning they'll come out and they tell
you
right they'll come out and tell you
what's wrong with your lesson today
which I love you to do with Keegan
that'd be great for
me Luke chapter 11 I love ke Luke 11 53
and 54 here's what it says they ass
saled him vinant and cross-examined him
about
many questions or things
I want you to imagine yourself as Jesus
just for a moment I know it's a little
hard here's your history you never spoke
that there wasn't somebody there looking
for something wrong with what you said
you never healed anybody that there
wasn't somebody there that was trying to
tell you you shouldn't have done it that
way you never sat and talked with people
that they didn't have multiple questions
not because they wanted to understand
you but because they were convinced you
were gone off the deep end and let me
read it specifically had perverted the
nation that's what Luke 23 in verse two
says they found him we found him
perverting the
nation in John 8 verse 6 they listened
so that they might have something to
accuse him
of it's not great if you're just
present it's great if you're here here
to actually learn and learn what the
greatest profanity is is to sit around
and judging each other that's
blasphemy when I make light of
you and I look for everything I can to
tear you
down I'm blaspheming the work of
God the great physician did not focus on
their presence but on the why they were
there to judge and the Cure was not a
part of their
thinking they were dealing with symptoms
but not the real problem okay so that's
that's pretty much the lesson tonight
let's see if we can get something from
this so uh dealing with the symptoms but
not the real problem uh we need to focus
on the causes we need to focus on the
cures the first the wh the things are
happening but in this text Jesus did
that and he wanted you to see the faith
that was the important thing he wanted
you to see the sin that was really the
important thing not the healing and then
he wanted you to see that there are
people who just spend their life judging
and not ever
applying the scriptures to themselves
too often our cures are like Miss Smith
who said um I cured my husband of biting
his nails somebody said well how did you
manage to do that well that's simple
every morning I hide his
teeth that's not a
cure that's dealing with a symptom if he
ever finds his teeth
again he won't be
well similarly it's not enough to tell
someone don't you
lie don't you
steal don't you cheat don't you hate
because those are symptoms of sin The
Cure is Jesus really having a
relationship with Jesus that is the
cure I believe in
Jesus but I'm the same person I was when
I obeyed the
gospel really okay so a man limped into
a hospital to have his foot x-rayed he's
having a real problem with foot we're
back to foot problems right had a real
problem with his foot and he came into
the hospital to get it X-ray and he was
asked to wait for the results said did
the X-ray he goes out out into the lobby
he's sitting there he's waiting with his
foot up and sometime later an orderly
appears this orderly comes over and
hands the man a large pill and as soon
as he hands his pill to the man uh a
mother with a small child in need of
immediate attention just comes in the ER
and so the orderly says uh well I got to
go take care of this so he uh he
disappears with the new patient the the
woman and and the man with the bad foot
problem uh looks around he sees a water
fountain over on the other end he gets
up he hobbles over uh gets a glass of
water managed to swallow this giant pill
and he goes and he sits down and waits
and sometime later the orderly finally
gets through with the little kid and
comes back out and and the orderly has a
bucket with him a bucket and the bucket
was full of water and he sets it down be
beside the limp man and he says uh okay
let's drop that pill in this bucket and
soak your foot in it for a little
while yeah I wasn't supposed to swallow
it maybe the Cure would work if we used
it the right
way maybe our own behaviors have
circumvented the cures we need maybe we
W aren't willing really to apply ask
yourself what did I really do so this is
hard questions and I have to asked these
questions of myself maybe you can do it
too did I confess sincere faith in the
Lord
Jesus or did I just want to believe in
him did I change my
heart or did it just end up changing my
clothes was I buried a a dead man in
water to rise to New Life
or did I really just get
wet you got to ask
yourself the curse is sin The Cure is
Jesus faith in
Jesus and I can't judge anybody
else it's not my
place but I do think I do think we need
to focus more on the wise don't you
think and on the house and you and you
and you and you
why am I doing what I'm
doing and I maybe I need to evaluate
myself I know I do maybe you don't I'm
pretty sure I've focused more on
symptoms than I have on
cures if you're here tonight you want to
look for the Cure we'll do everything we
can to help you won't you come while we
stand and while we
sing
