there was one among them that was filled
with the devil in Acts 20 and: 30 it
says this from among yourselves men will
rise up speaking perverse things to draw
away the disciples after them that was
spoken to the Elders of the church at
Ephesus so even among Elders there would
be uh satans if you will those
adversaries of even the truth in second
Peter 2 and verse one it makes it clear
then in the field that I work in it says
there were also false prophets among the
people even as there will be false
teachers among you so you need to be
aware of false preachers uh eventually
uh by the time we get this thing fixed
you know I'm getting old and somebody
else is going to be up here
predominantly you need to be on guard
because this right here what what you're
going to have is a jewel it's like honey
it's like a sweet thing that people are
going to want to be a part of and we all
know that sweet things draw flies so
just be aware you need to be on your
guard of what's coming your way as we
reach out beyond our doors to Outsiders
there will be fake converts that's in
this story they'll be converted for
money uh they they only become a
Christian because they see a possibility
of getting money out it there will be
those who will do it for the sake of
conning people there will be people who
will do it for the sake of power
there'll be people who will do it for
the sake of control well that sounds
rather negative Rex you'd think you've
seen all this I've seen all this in a
lot more stay with me there'll be those
who will obey the gospel for food uh but
don't really want to work for their food
there'll be people who will obey the
gospel in front of you and you'll think
a real con converts but they do it so uh
it'll look like they just want to help
do the work but it really will be you
help them do their work there will be
people who will obey the gospel to get a
girlfriend there will be people who obey
the gospel to get a boyfriend there will
be people who obey the gospel to get a
mate we've seen throughout the lifetime
of my Ministry I've seen more uh people
baptized and you can shake a stick at
who just wanted to get their mate of the
one that they wanted to marry to agree
to marry them and that happens more than
you could Poss there there will be uh
men who will be after women full of
guilt so they can take advantage of you
and that will happen uh there will be
men who will come who will want to
molest our children and and don't live
in a bubble where you think that doesn't
occur that occurs and churches are a
target of child mesters and pedophiles
look at churches just like that's gravy
for them be aware and we have to be
careful for fraudsters there are always
going to be frauders out there who try
to beat you out of money I'm I just tell
you straight up you go to church and
you'll think well this is not the place
of anybody's going to talk about money
and they'll be trying to talk to you
about their business deal and they'll
want you to get involved in their
business deal and take advantage of you
and the reason that they think they can
do it is because they know you're honest
you're sincere and you're probably a
simple Christian who doesn't expect
anything like that and they'll even make
arguments like uh well you can't sue me
if this goes bad because Christians
aren't supposed to sue Christian 1
Corinthians 6 and: 7 but Matthew 18:17
makes it very clear that if you able to
disfellowship or you can disfellowship
somebody the person that you dis
Fellowship here to treat as a
non-Christian so yes you can sue someone
who would dare uh to be a fraudster
against you I remember I baptized one
guy pretty good sized guy he came to my
door one day and I was home and he
knocked on my door and he says oh I need
to talk to somebody about uh obeying the
gospel I've been studying I need need to
obey the gospel and I said okay so we
went over to the church building we sat
down for about 15 to 20 minutes he knew
more about what to do to be saved almost
than I did so I said okay I'll baptize
you I took him into the baptistry nobody
else is there took his confession
baptized him as he was getting up out of
the water he turned to me and says I
really could use some help could you
maybe spot me some money and I said well
I think I got about $10 on me he said
well that'll be great thank you last
time I ever saw him I later talked to
some preachers in the town 25 miles away
from there who have like 50
congregations in their town and they
said that they known he'd been baptized
25 times before he came over to our
congregation and then he was gone never
saw him again in 2021 of the 300 332
million Americans
63% said that they were Christians
that's 210 million people claim to be
Christians in America roughly today in a
recent poll they were asked if they
believed in God these Christians were
asked if they believe in God and 22% of
them that is 42 million of those who
claim to be Christians said they did not
believe in the god of the
Bible so it's not what you might think
it is sometimes are there preachers who
don't believe in God oh yeah uh the
Center for Cognitive studies at tur
University under the direction of Daniel
Dennett and Linda lascola which by the
way neither one of them sound like they
believe in God they did a a report
called preachers who are not Believers
and they talked about the implications
of what it is for somebody to preach who
doesn't actually believe themselves and
they come to the conclusions that really
uh primitive humans invented the idea of
God and the afterlife so that they
weren't scared about everything and in
their report they presented case studies
of five unbelieving ministers and and I
want to run those down who they were I
won't give you their last name but I'll
give you their first name and I'll tell
you their story real quick and the
reason I'm telling you all this is
because folks Simon was a
fake you're going to see that before
this te this lesson's over with Simon
was a fake and you need to understand
there's fakes out there and we're going
to baptize some folks and they're going
to be fake and they will go through our
Bible studies we'll think that they're
great to do all three of our little
books and everything and they'll be a
fake and you can't believe just because
we baptized oh well he's baptized that
didn't mean they're they're converted
you can make a lot of folks wet uh there
are preachers who do not believe in God
Wes is a Methodist he lost his
confidence in the Bible while attending
a liberal Christian college and in a
seminary and he said I went to college
thinking Adam and Eve were real people
he makes a joke about that now of course
Adam and Eve were real people folks amen
amen wall now now he no longer believes
that God exists and his church members
don't even know that he's an atheist
another guy named Rick he's a campus
Minister for the United Churches of
Christ now that's not us that's a
different group okay it's one of the
most liberal churches out there in the
world it's a Protestant denomination and
with an agnostic College actually and so
he lost all of his beliefs at the time
that he graduated from Seminary actually
the Seminary C he no longer believe in
God but he remained in Ministry and this
is his quote these are my people this is
the context in which I work these are
the people that I know that's why I
still preach Daryl is a presbyterian he
sees himself as quote a progressiv
minded individual Pastor as he calls
himself and he wants to be the kind of
non doctrinal Christian a non doctrinal
Christian and he quote he says given uh
validity in some way to the gospel but
not in every way he acknowledged that he
is more a pantheist than a theist uh
Daryl is candid about the fact that he
remains in the ministry largely forget
this for financial reasons I mean this
is the career he's followed he provides
for his family through it so he openly
explow his uh beliefs he said I may be
Burning Bridges in terms of my ability
to earn a living this way he he's
telling them he says for the very fact
that I'm telling you that I don't
actually believe I could end up losing
my job Adam a minister in the Churches
of Christ that is us
okay after years of the ministry he
began to lose all theological confidence
after reading a series of books he
became convinced that the atheists have
better arguments than Christians do than
believers do and he's moved fully into
an atheist mode yet he continues
to lead the church in worship how well
here's what he said here's how I'm
handling my job in Sunday mornings I see
it as play acting I see myself as taking
on the role of a believer in a worship
service and Performing he is an
atheistic agnostic he says and he stays
in the ministry and this is the reason
he stays because he likes the people and
quote I need the job still if he had an
alternative source of income he would
take it he feels hypocritical but he no
longer believes hypocrisy is a sin
that's convenient isn't it John is a
southern baptist worship leader he was
attack attracted to Christianity as uh a
religion of love and he pursued
Christianity but it brought him to the
point of not believing in God at all he
is clearly not being honest with his
church members he rejects all belief in
God all true Christian claims he rejects
out of hand and he is a determined I
mean a Hardline atheist and this
unbelieving Minister admits that he
stays in the ministry because of
financial reasons his ministry even he
names his price he get out of it here's
his price if someone said here's
$200,000 I turn my notice in this week
say saying a month from now is my last
Sunday because then I can pay off
everything I
owe just
money Gilbert tenant in 1739 preached a
lesson on the dangers of an unconverted
Ministry he described unbelieving
preachers as a curse upon the church
they pray upon the faith and the
faithful and this is his quote these
caterpillars labor to devour every green
thing in the church there are fake
converts if there are fake Apostles and
there are fake Christ and their fake
members and their fake
Elders even though it doesn't say it I
know too many deacons there must be fake
deacons anyway uh fake preachers fake
Elders fake deacons fake teachers fake
servers fake
members so as we go outside these walls
and I pray that's what we do I pray
that's what we use this facility for we
go into the highways and the hedges and
we compel them to come in the vast
majority of the people that we reach out
to will be sincere and they'll obey the
gospel and that'll be
wonderful but there will be don't don't
be fooled brace
yourselves get ready for it there will
be
fakes don't let that stop you I say all
that because we're not to stop because
that happen happens that's in this text
but we're not to stop if it is my job it
is your position to reach out and but
also to warn you that there are going to
be wolves out there who would dare eat
all the little lambs they're there so
our text of Philip's Outsider
conversions the nonbeliever conversion
there are three truths that I want to
leave with you okay I don't know if I
had any oh look at all that there was a
lot of good notes there but y'all don't
want that that here we are number one
The Outsider had a nonbelievers heart
that could fate conjugations conjuration
excuse me look at what he what he does
he's a total fake when he comes to the
gospel this is not real there is no such
thing as real
sorcery there is fake sorcery and
there's chemicals but we know of nothing
that they're actually able to do in Acts
8: 9 11 it says for there was a certain
man called Simon who previously
practiced sorcery in the city and
astonished the people of Samaria
claiming that he was someone great to
whom they all gave heed now he knew he
wasn't someone great from the least to
the greatest saying this man is the
great power of God he knew he wasn't the
power of God he knew he was a fake verse
11 and they heeded him because he had
astonished them with his sorceries for a
long time now I'm not saying that the
devil doesn't do junk I'm not saying
that I'm saying this man knew he was a
quack he knew he was a fake he knew he
wasn't the great power of God here's
what I know listen I'm going tell you a
little secret I have known
personally Believers quote
unquote who did not believe in God but
stood up and led prayer in
church as an evangelizing Outsider
non-hebrew Christians like
Phillip we too must reach out even to
nonbelievers whose heart can even fake
such congregations as
that number
two this Outsider had a non-believers
heart that could fake conviction you
know if you can fake sincerity you can
fake anything verse 12 says but when
they believe Phillip as he preached the
things concerning the kingdom of God in
the name of Jesus Christ both men and
women were baptized verse 13 then Simon
himself also believed so it all looks
good and when he was baptized he
continued with Phillip and was amazed
seeing the Miracles and signs which were
done
folks let me just tell you straight
up you haven't been in the block that
I've lived in then and that's a good
thing maybe I have known quote unquote
believers who absolutely had no
convictions if it
works and it makes you money it's
fine you hear me and if any of y'all out
there think like that you may be
lost if it works and it makes you money
doesn't matter whether it's right or
wrong it's fine no
convictions as an evangelizing outsider
non-hebrew Christian like Phillip we too
must reach out even to non-believers
whose heart can absolutely fake
convictions because he didn't believe
this stuff and I you'll see it in the
next section that we look
at okay maybe y'all can change it I
can't change it there got thanks this
Outsider had a non-believers heart that
could fake compassions let's just read
through this one more time and I want to
point out a couple of things we're going
to start in verse 14 now when the
apostles who were at Jerusalem heard
that Samaria had received the word of
God they sent Peter and John to them
verse 15 who when they had come down
prayed for them that they might receive
the Holy Spirit verse 16 for as yet he
had fallen upon none of them so
independently he hadn't done anything
and given them miraculous ability they
they had only been baptized in the name
of the Lord Jesus so it's obviously some
kind of miraculous abilities that they
were looking for here that's obvious
right now before we read anymore verse
17 then they laid hands on them and they
received the Holy Spirit so we find out
that the apostles could impart
miraculous abilities right there Verse
18 and when Simon saw that through the
laying on the apostles hands the holy
spirit that is these miraculous gifts
was given he offered them money look
where he immediately
went
money that shows you his heart's not in
this he went immediately to the subject
of money verse 19 saying give me this
power also that anyone on whom I lay
hand uh excuse me I lost my place that
anyone on whom I lay hands may receive
the Holy Spirit verse 20 but Peter said
to him your money your money
so that's where his thought was so
imagine I it it appears to me that Simon
had accumulated a good bit of wealth
from
pretending and so he thinks well here's
another
opportunity I was fake before I'm fake
this
too and so Peter said to him your money
perish with you because you thought that
the gift of God this gift of ability to
perform Miracles or the gift of passing
miraculous ability on did you thought
may be forgiven you you've gone so far
down this path in this corruption I
don't know if you can
change verse 23 for I pray God if
perhaps the thought of your heart excuse
me for I see that you are poisoned
listen to this terminology this is
strong stuff folks verse 23 for I see
that you are poisoned by bitterness and
bound by iniquity listen to me I'm going
to tell you there are people who go to
church who are poisoned they are not who
they appear to
be you need to be aware that happens now
it's unlikely that they're here on a
Sunday night cuz y'all all rather
probably been laying with you shoes off
watching TV or something right now as
far as being comfortable this is for the
Lord you're doing this verse 24 then
Simon answered and said pray to the Lord
for me that none of these things which
You' spoken may come upon me so I don't
know what all Peter said it implies he
said more stuff that was about to come
on him because of what he'
done here's what I know and
listen I have known quote unquote
believers who had no compassion for
other people's needs or the poor but
they sure acted like they
did
and they
didn't as an evangelising outsider
non-hebrew Christian like Phillip we too
must reach out and even to
nonbelievers whose heart could fake
compassion here's the deal it's still
our job we don't get a choice about this
oh well we've got to we've got to pick
and choose no we go to everybody we
reach out amen we go to everybody we
reach out to everybody we hope that like
Peter did that even if your heart is
wrong you'll change it we all hope that
but the truth is that there are those
who can fake these conjurations we that
can fake convictions that can fake
compassions and we still will baptize
them and we still will think oh we've
got somebody and then they'll do
something heinous and we'll all be
shocked there's
um that's this whole lesson Simon Magus
or the uh sorcerer or the
magician Simon was a
charlatan and a so-called convert to
Christianity baptized by Phillip he
later clashed with Peter and
John and by writers of the 2
Century it's not verifiable but this is
the writers that wrote about him
ireneus Justin
Martyr
holus and epiphanies oh excuse me
epiphanous and they describe him as the
founder of gnosticism I don't know if
that's true but Justin says he was the
leader of the group from Samaria because
he was from Samaria and there was a
group and he calls the guy's name Simon
of Gita a village in that area and then
ironis says about him he's the founder
of the sect of the simonian a polius
quotes a work he attributes to Simon or
his followers as the simonian there's a
couple of books that supposedly are
attributed about this whole thing and in
some of the uh heresies and the people
who study heresies they say that Simon
is also supposed to have written several
lost treatises among them are the four
quarters of the world the sermons of the
refuter the acts of Peter the pseud of
clemes and the Epistle of the Apostles
Simon also appears to have been thought
to be a formidable sorcerer which had
more abilities than we think even to the
point he supposedly had the ability to
levitate and fly now what makes that
interesting is
this the Silver Chalice was a movie made
in 1954 that's Jack Palance y'all
remember Jack Palance you remember Jack
Jack plant he's kind of spooky guy
anyway Simon Magus it's supposed to be
about Simon Magus and and Peter guess
who played
Peter somebody guess it come to me
afterwards I won't I won't get into that
right now see if you can guess who
played Peter anyway uh he was supposedly
this Grace Illusionist who did miracles
in front of the the U
Caesars and then he himself in the movie
started to believe he was God he built a
tower and this this is part of the
folklore about it he built the Tower
that he had figured out a way to put a
crank in the top of it and a pole that
would extend that you couldn't see it
from the ground and he'd fly around the
perimeter of the Tower and it looked
like he was flying with a harness on him
problem was he started believing in
himself he climbed up there and jumped
off he didn't do well real well he died
anyway
Christianity was meant to be taken to
Outsiders but that means Sometimes some
are going to come in that are still
outside and Jesus wanted that right
Jesus wanted us Jesus as an outsider
from Nazareth wanted to reach out to the
galileans to the Samaritans to the
Greeks and the galileans who were his
disciples wanted to reach out to
Outsiders and then Phillip as an
outsider who's a hebrew-speaking Jew
wanted to reach out to the Samaritans
and even if the outside ERS were so far
outside that they would not change did
they want to reach out to them yes go
into all the world and preach the gospel
to Every Creature not just the ones that
you're convinced are going to be the
ones they should be even Outsiders can
change and if they would they could be
just like you and I who have changed and
we're still supposed to reach out even
if they never do
change whether you're a fake or not
tonight and I pray there's nobody here
tonight that's a
fake that's not fooling the rest of us
that this doesn't mean anything to you I
hope that's not the case that there's no
one here like that I pray it's true that
we're all as sincere as we can be I'm
not talking about that we don't feel
guilty about Sin everybody feels guilty
about Sin everybody's feels like a fake
occasionally because of the sin in their
life that's not what I'm talking about
I'm talking about that blatantly this
means nothing to you and you're covering
that
up that's a
fake that's a serious fake and you're in
trouble not from me not from us you're
just in trouble we'd love to help you
any way we can but it's scary because I
look at the story of Simon and I don't
know if it got better there's no history
of it in the Bible so I don't know if it
got any better I'm just saying saying on
the outside people said it didn't get
better it got worse be
careful but here's the truth we're going
to grow God's going to bless us we're
going to reach out to a lot of people
99.99% will be good
people but be
careful be safe protect your children
protect your
mates never just believe because they
walked in this door never just believe
because we baptized them don't assume
they're bad but don't just assume
everything's gold and you don't have to
be careful amen and so and if there's
someone here tonight who'd like to join
the side of sincere and repent of their
sins confess the name of Christ and be
baptized and serve the Lord the rest of
your life we'll be happy to help you if
you'll come while we stand and while we
sing
