good morning
church uh with all this uh pirate stuff
around me I have to ask are you doing
okay I have to uh have to say a word
about Vacation Bible School uh you may
not know this but years ago I think
Haley was 16 or 17 was over at her house
with her family she expressed a great
interest in being uh part of VBS and
running VBS so she graduated and she was
19 years old after she graduated she has
taken over Vacation Bible School since
2016 and has been running it ever since
and does a fabulous job amen if you
haven't seen uh most of it's gone you
you have no idea how this building was
fixed up and how many people were
working to make it work but God bless
every one of you that were part of his
crew I'm a little concerned though my
son-in-law preached last Sunday night
and I think we escaped because he was
the Bible class teacher look what
happened to one of the students
so was it that bad was it
that oh man we are Creekside Church of
Christ we have been other names we were
known as Bel scholes Church Church of
Christ now maybe we're the no-name
church because we don't have a name out
there very well just call us the no-name
church but we're all about worshiping
God the father in spirit and Truth
sharing Christ Jesus with the world
around us seeing lives transformed by
the power of the Holy Spirit and his
word and also we want to be a part of
serving the community in every way that
we can but especially with the gospel of
Christ that's who we are that's who
we've been that's who we plan to always
be and uh if you feel like that sounds
like a worthy go we'd love to talk to
you about that we have a prospective
members class love for you to be a part
of that I do suggest to you that there's
a lot going on around us here this is
the first of four buildings if you're
new to us and let me put you where we
are financially right now we have given
over three and a half million dollars
toward this but that's not the whole
story because you look at the red at the
bottom before that happened we had
already given two
$160,000 to pay off the property and to
pay off the old building and that's
sometimes lost in the process so right
around $6 million has already been given
toward this effort that we're on right
now and so there's more to come and God
bless you if you can help in that
process we'd love to see your help
there's different ways you can give uh
you can give by giving cash in the
collection plate that goes to the
building each time every time we go over
our budget of $50,000 that's contributed
uh when when we're over our budget not
our contribution but when things are
running and we have little money over
$50,000 that goes directly into the
building fund so when we're doing really
well and giving is really good that's
what starts to happen and then of course
if you just want to give directly to on
the mission uh that's still available
and uh love for you to be a part of that
uh our scripture reading that we've had
for this month just starting this month
uh if you'd like to uh say it with me
start with the word and and you shall
know the truth and the truth shall make
you free amen what a great month to be
thinking about freedom in Christ uh
we're looking at today faithfulness
we've been on a series as you most of
you know on um the fruit of the spirit
and so we're almost to the end of the
list and yet obviously even the nine
fruits is not everything that the spirit
does for you so please don't take it
that way uh before we go any further
though let's let's pray together pray
with
me our Holy Father we always need your
help we always need your presence we're
not here just to go through
ritualistic events that mean nothing to
us but father our heart is tugged every
moment we're here every moment we sing
every moment we pray every moment we
read your scripture every moment we
think on you and we participate iate in
communion father we pray that you'll
help us to be like you you are the great
and faithful God help us to learn to be
faithful fill us with your spirit so
that we might learn to be more faithful
forgive us for our
unfaithfulness help us to seek and find
the Holy Spirit and the filling of
faithfulness from the Holy Spirit father
we pray that uh not only that you will
help us to become faithful but that we
will stay faithful till the very end and
believe that most sitting here will
remain faithful it's in the name of
Jesus we pray
amen now I think what I just said there
at the end is a really important concept
uh there's an interesting story about a
Miriam B bilga that's in the town
and what's interesting about it and the
point that they make of it is she was
from a Priestly tribe and this is
recorded early history of the Jews and
so she's in a Priestly tribe it's not in
your Bible but they recorded in their
talet and that
everybody uh had remained so faithful
that her story becomes a big story she's
a part of the Priestly tribe she
abandons that she marries a gentile
which was just anathema for them and
then she join joins the the Greeks in
attacking the Jews and she even makes
her way into the battle into the temple
itself takes her sandal off and hits the
Altar and screams out wolf wolf as if to
say that God had just literally taken
all that the people of Israel had and
yet what was it there to show for it the
reason that story is told is not so that
you'll get depressed because people do
go astray
the reason the story is told is because
it was so
rare only one of the 12 abandoned it you
may think that the majority of people in
the church that are
converted struggle to stay with it
that's not my
experience my experience is the vast
majority of those who were truly
converted never live
leave never or hardly even tempted to
leave by the way oh they sin we all sin
they mess up big time from time to time
but they're not leaving they keep coming
back but it's not always easy is it it's
just not always easy and if it's easy
for you to be faithful then maybe you
just haven't been
challenged maybe your faith hasn't been
challenged
challenged uh there's a story about a
man who on a Wednesday night was uh the
whole congregation was sharing their
testimony he stepped forward to tell his
testimony about his life with the Lord
and how the Lord had changed him he said
he was listening to a missionary one
night and he was telling about this
great Mission program and he's sitting
there feeling really really bad he just
just got a job just got paid he got paid
the flopping sum of a dollar this is
back a few years ago folks that used to
be a a pay for a week potentially and so
he got this whopping sum of a dollar and
there he sits and he's listening to this
great missionary doing this great work
and he wants to be a part of it but all
he's got is a dollar he doesn't have
coins he just has a dollar
bill and he struggles with it and
finally he gives the dollar bill tells
this old story and he says and he
believed that that was the reason that
God had blessed him so and now he was a
multi-millionaire he owned businesses he
was powerful in
business that's wonderful he's he sat
down one of the oldest members of that
congregation was sitting near to him and
they and she leaned over and she says
that was such a wonderful wonderful
testimony love that
story I dare you to do it
again
if it's easy for you to be faithful
maybe you haven't been
challenged now faithfulness sounds like
and I've heard a lot of preachers
actually say this this isn't true
faithfulness sounds like full of
Faith now that's a different thing being
full of faith is not faithful the Bible
talks about people full of Faith Acts
chapter 6 and verse 5 it says step was a
man full of Faith acts 11:24 says
Barnabas was a man full of the Holy
Spirit and of Faith so you can be full
of faith that isn't the same thing as
faithful full of faith is a person who
has a great amount of Faith okay but
faithfulness means
firm
steadfast having
Fidelity not moving away from the things
that they've been taught Psalm
119:90 says your faithfulness endures to
all generations because God is faithful
truth is as you and I struggle with
faithfulness we do we really do we have
a ongoing battle with staying faithful
so while I say most people stay faithful
it's still a battle within but what the
Bible suggests in the Hebrew is that it
is to confirm firm and support it
represent it comes from a word that
means firmness steadfastness Fidelity
not being full of Faith but rather being
firm and steady the Greek word means
reliable or trustworthy or and it comes
from the idea of having confidence in
someone so that's a different thing
entirely are you one that's trustworthy
can you be trusted to do a thing or you
reliable that's what this means so I'm
going to challenge you with this idea is
that I I believe that the church needs
us to be more
faithful it needs us we all need each
other to be more faithful so I'm not
saying you're not faithful I'm
suggesting that we could be more
faithful and want to give you seven
areas where it's clear the Bible
suggests that you need to be faithful
and we need you as a church to be
faithful number one faithfulness is
needed in Mastery if you will I'm going
to be turning in my Bible so I want you
to do the same if you will you can look
up here but I'm going to be turning in
my Bible in Matthew chapter 24 and verse
45 I'm reading this is New King James
Version it says this who then is a
faithful and wise servant whom his
master made ruler over his his household
to give them food in due season so his
master made him the ruler over the
entire household now the idea of being a
master or having Mastery over something
means that you're the sole guy you're
you're at the top of the wrong that's
like in a home in a household there's
got to be somebody that is responsible
for everything now not
boss but respons ible somebody has to be
responsible who's responsible so there's
about three places that you can be held
as responsible you could be responsible
in your
home who's responsible there who gets it
done you can be responsible at church
that's usually like
Elders usually you can be responsible in
business that means you can be at the
ruler the master of that and the truth
is folks we need every one of them just
as this says to be faithful we don't
need somebody running a business who's
Unfaithful we don't need somebody
running the church that's Unfaithful and
we sure don't need somebody trying to
run a home that's
Unfaithful number next faithfulness is
needed in management according to
scriptures if you will turn with me now
to First
Corinthians and we're going to go to
chapter 4 and look at verse two if you
got your Bibles turn there with me
sometimes it's good to bring a Bible to
church I know everybody's got these
electronic things but you know what the
batteries on this never go flat and so 1
Corinthians chapter 4 and verse two it
says this and I'm going to beginning
with verse one let a man so consider us
excuse me as Servants of Christ and
stewards of the mysteries of God
moreover it is required in stewards the
word we use today as managers that one
be found faithful you don't put somebody
to manage anything if you can't rely
upon them stewards are to manage
particularly people the last thing you
want is a manager who thinks the only
responsibility he has is the business
managers manage
people
okay that's their primary job to manage
people to make their people do what
needs to be done and so if you're a
manager of people and as a Christian you
should be a manager of people because if
there are any people on the planet that
ought to be able to get along with
people and manage them it is Christians
but you know what's required look what's
required you got to be reliable you got
to be trustworthy yourself you can't be
somebody that nobody can trust you can't
be somebody who says one thing and does
another number
next we don't just need those who are in
Mastery to be reliable and faithful we
need those in
management but then we need those in
Ministry turn with me I'm going to
Ephesians chapter 6 now if you will turn
with me to Ephesians chapter 6 we're
going to look at just verse 21 Ephesians
6 and verse 21 but that you also may
know my fa s and how I'm doing tickus a
beloved brother and faithful minister in
the Lord will make all things known to
you we're about to do this ministry Fair
we got all these different things around
the room around the building these are
Ministries you know it's great to put up
a table but are you actually doing
anything you know it's great to say that
this is what we're about but if all
you're about setting up a table you're
not really about anything are
you okay and so the the real question is
is are we faithful and the next thing
isn't just that we set up a table it's
are you going to sign up for anything
that's what today's really about would
you sign up to help these people do some
of these Ministries around here because
to do ministry you have to be faithful
there's there's just not everybody isn't
faithful now I know in Ministry the
biggest problems people who are like me
any fulltime since I've been for so long
the biggest threats are
Pride greed and lust those are the
biggest threats to me okay let's
dishonest biggest threat maybe in
Ministry of the church is showing
up we even show up uh yeah but let's go
to the next one so that's essential I
mean we just need you to be faithful in
these Ministries if you sign up please
try to show up
okay and help them number next and this
is critical faithfulness is needed in
the church within our members I'm going
to turn over to Colossians chapter 1 and
look at verse two Colossians chapter
1 and verse
two to the Saints and faithful brethren
in Christ who are in colassi grace to
you and PR peace from God our Father and
the Lord Jesus Christ to the Saints
and faithful Brethren I wonder why he
said
that why did he say to the Saints and
faithful Brethren well I'm suspecting
that there were Brethren who weren't
faithful you know that we have members
that never
come we've even forgotten their
names they we we don't even know who
they are anymore I mean probably been
dropped off our list because hadn't seen
them in so long uh the FBI couldn't find
them in this
town you know you're not really a member
of any club if you don't ever
go you're not really a member of the
church if you never show up what what
are we really talking about that
faithfulness what is faithfulness
remember reliability trustworthy can we
depend on you can you come do can we say
you'll be here three out of four
Sundays what will we ever see you on a
Sunday night will we ever see you on a
Wednesday night will you ever show up to
a VBS and help would you ever show up
till work day and help that's what we're
talking about members members right what
are you a member of if you don't ever
help are are you a member to observe
what's going on is this a show is that
what you're a member of I'm a member of
a theater group and I go down and watch
y'all perform is that what this
is you got to think about it think about
what what you I'm not trying to be ugly
I'm trying to just make you think I mean
just think about it you're a member what
does it mean membership has privileges
oh yeah it also has
responsibilities and
it's being trustworthy number
next marriage marriage is critical let's
go to First Timothy if you're still
turning with me go to 1 Timothy chapter
3 1 Timothy chapter 3 and we're going to
look at verse 11 1 Timothy 3 and verse
11 reads
thus likewise their wives talking about
deacons likewise their wives why why do
you think that deacons wives
matter what do you think Elders wives
matter what do you think Preachers Wives
matter I think it's logical makes sense
doesn't it likewise their wives must be
reverent well you wouldn't want a
Deacon's wives who curse like a sailor
would you now would you would you want
him to be a
deacon likewise wives must be reverent
not slanderers not running everybody
else down behind their back at church I
know y'all have never heard of such a
thing but there have been known people
who would gossip at church and slander
others behind their back I know that may
sound strange but it's actually happened
Nots slanderers temperate that means
control
themselves
faithful in some
stuff faithful in all things
Dependable you think that's important
let me tell you how important that is
about 80 to 90% of what's done by a
deacon is done by his
wife that's just the truth that's always
been true and always will be true that
why are very industrious and they're
more about getting it done sometimes
than men are men usually stand up and
say yeah I'm the Deacon she did the work
so I'm just saying so it's critical that
she be faithful in all things but by the
way that's true for an Elder's wife as
well that's true of a preacher's wife
imagine if my wife never came to church
how'd you feel about me never came to
church or she just came every now and
then how would that work what if she
didn't in participate in
anything she's sitting over there go
look at her
anyway she really loves me to do that
I'll be in trouble later but anyway so
what I'm trying to suggest to you is is
that in
marriage it's critical to be faithful
and we're talking about deacons but how
would you think it would be great if
your mate never came
home
how would it be if they were having an
affair what if you never knew where they
were faithfulness not in some stuff but
in all things so in marriage
particularly when you're in leadership
at the church but in
marriage your mate needs to be faithful
male female number
next let's go to Titus 1 and look at
verse six Titus 1 and verse 6 in this
text is talking about
Elders calls them Bishops in some
version in verse six it says if a man is
blameless the husband of one wife having
faithful children not accused of disip
dissipation or insubordination again the
word does not mean what we often make
try to make it mean
that that he has uh a great faith rather
in this case it just means a kid that
can be relied upon Elders kids need to
be able to be relied upon deacons kids
need to be reliable absolutely and let
me say something about that point and
that is kids if you want to be treated
as mature you have to be reliable it's
not a big thing it's just if you say
you're coming in at 10:00 being at 10:00
if it's 11: being at 11
if you are going to work go to work just
do the thing that we need you to do and
do it consistently that's reliability
that's faithfulness and that's what we
need that's all we need out of children
really and so the sooner you learn that
that's what we see maturity maturity
literally is being reliable and so you
be a member of church for years years
years years years and years years and
years and not be reliable for anything
can't depend on you for anything you
don't do anything you don't help with
anything you just sit in the corner and
complain about what is going on that
happens so what we need is maturity and
if we're ever any of us and this is me
this is all of us if we're ever going to
be more we have to mature how do we
mature we become more reliable you can
trust us more number next it's the last
one this one may surprise you this is is
in Hebrews chapter 3 and: 5 you want to
go there want to go to the next point
which is faithfulness in the church is
needed in martyrdom now some of you
sitting out there said what you're
trying to expect us to die now you don't
know what the word means originally it
did not mean die no that's not what it
meant it means what it means in this
text uh Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 5
says
this for he has not put the world
no I'm in the wrong chapter sorry I'm in
Chapter 2 I knew that sounded wrong
Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 5 and Moses
indeed was faithful in all his house as
a servant for a testimony of those
things which be spoken afterward what
does it say and Moses indeed was
faithful in all his house as a servant
for a testimony of those that things
which would be spoken Moses had a
testimony by being
faithful true
testimony is what marinum really
meant it's a person who would testify
that they believed in Jesus that they
serve Jesus now those are the ones who
were martyred because they dared to do
that those are the ones who were killed
because they dared do that under Roman
Empire but the original meaning was
simply the made a testimony of what they
believed do you know that there are
people who won't tell you what they
believe I mean it's gotten to the point
where you know it's just inappropriate
to say how you believe and I'm just
telling you we have got to learn our
voice again and tell people what we
believe and not be ashamed of what we
believe and who we believe in and our
faith in Jesus but more than that I mean
the church needs to not be a shame now
it's great for us to be humble and and
let other people win arguments that's I
get that but there is a point in which
you need to at least State what you
believe and be faithful to do it you
must find your voice and be faithful to
speak about your testimony if you have
one were you converted or did you just
obey the gospel there's a
difference were you really converted is
Jesus really of your lord and savior
have you really made a lifechanging
event and if you have and you were
baptized for the remission of your sins
I would think you would want to tell
people about that because it's made such
a difference in our
lives but you know faithfulness is
needed in the church in these seven
areas we've looked
at but the truth
is even if men count as faithful and
reliable
we really
aren't Isaiah 53:6 says all all
all all we so not them all of them all
we like sheep have gone
astray and have turned everyone to his
own
way
all we like you so we're not the
faithful one God is the faithful one we
we need the Holy Spirit to help us to be
faithful we need the word of God to help
us be our faithfulness at best is no
comparison to his faithfulness that's
just all there is to it even if you're
one of the most faithful members of this
church your faithfulness is terrible
compared to his faithfulness his
faithfulness is what get us through and
in lamentation 3 verse 23 King James
says it this way they are new every
morning great is thy faithfulness now
Thomas chisel took that many many years
ago and he turned that into a song let
me tell you a little bit about him he
was born in
1866 at the age of 16 he was a school
teacher can you believe that I was a bus
driver at 16 everybody goes can you
imagine 16 now he's school teacher yeah
at 27 he he said he had a conversion
experience became a Believer but it
wasn't until he was 37 that he went into
Ministry but this young man was never in
good health all of his life he's in bad
Health he went into Ministry at 37 by
the way that's a common thing we make
all sickly people into ministers anyway
so at 37 he went into Ministry and he
quit it one year later because his
health supposedly was so bad so he quit
it and so then he went into being a life
insurance agent some of you may know how
this experience goes so he's a life
insurance agent and then he he was that
and through his 40s and 50s finally at
57 he began to write hyms and
poems and in writing hymns and poems he
seems to have found himself and found
something but he was never in good
health and he died young not long after
he wrote this in fact but he
wrote what we tend to think we know but
I think you need to listen to these
words a little closer today please
listen to them a little
closer Great Is Thy
Faithfulness oh God my
father
there is no Shadow this comes from James
chapter 1 verse 27 there is no shadow of
turning with thee thou changest not thy
compassions they fail not as thou Hast
been thou forever wil be the refrain
goes great is thy
faithfulness great is Thy Faithfulness
mourning by mourning new mercies I see
this is very personal
experiential all I have needed thy hand
hath provided Great Is Thy Faithfulness
Lord unto me if even if you hadn't been
to you Lord unto
me Summer and Winter and Springtime and
harvest you ever seen it different I
know all this global warming junk listen
to me I'm not saying it isn't true I
don't know I'm I'm I'm not studying that
stuff but let me tell you what's not
going to happen it's always going to be
summer winter spring and fall it that's
going to always be it may be hotter it
may be colder but it's always summer and
winter Springtime and harvest sun moon
and stars in their courses above they're
still going to run right where they've
been Moon's going to hang out there
right where it's been it's going to be
there till the Lord comes there horses
above join with all nature in manifold
wisdom to thy great faithfulness mercy
and love folks the sea runs to the shore
every day every day every day every day
it runs to the shore the stars go
exactly where look up there tomorrow
North
Star
Moon listen to him now Great Is Thy
Faithfulness great is thy faith
faithfulness mourning by mourning new
mercies I see all that I've needed thy
hand hath provided Great Is Thy
Faithfulness Lord unto me last one
pardon for sin and a peace that endureth
if you've been forgiven oh and the peace
isn't just that it passes understanding
it lasts because it never passes pardon
for sin and peace that endureth thine
own dear presence to cheer and to guide
God strength for today and bride Hope
For Tomorrow quit being depressed about
what's coming strength for today and BR
Hope For Tomorrow blessings all mine
with 10,000 beside Great Is Thy
Faithfulness Great Is Thy Faithfulness
mourning by mour new mercies I see all
that I've needed thy hand hath provided
great is thy faithfulness Lord at least
unto
me
amen but we can't depend on you and you
can't depend on me because I will fail
you because we are sinners and we are
still Sinners but at least his holy
spirit can have an impact on us and we
can be more faithful if you'd like to
give your life to the Lord you can head
toward faithfulness never arriving here
but head toward faithfulness repenting
of your sins confessing the name of
Christ we'll help you every way we can
if you need to come come while we stand
and while we
sing
