feed him everyone
I'll be reading from Genesis 3 verse 16.
to the woman he said
I will greatly multiply your pain in
childbirth
in pain you shall bring forth children
yet your desire shall be for your
husband and he shall rule over you this
is the word of God you may be seated
good evening
hope you've had a good day Church
um
I need to kind of go on record that the
lesson that I'm giving tonight is
actually a stolen lesson I took it from
uh Sean Andrews in our vob our band
Brothers I was inspired by us and he
gave there and I thought you know that
needs to be shared with a little wider
audience and so I'm kind of taking that
and going with it tonight uh lesson that
he did there on men that I thought was a
great job
I need to also mention that that passage
that you just saw red has a conundrum at
the end of it uh that construction in
the Hebrew is found in a chapter just
after this and so it's an unusual
construction but basically it means that
the woman will want to possess her
husband but the man would end up
controlling his wife which is a bit of a
conundrum and it expresses because of
sin what would end up being one of our
struggles
so it is a result of sin in our life
that that struggle would happen not
because that God thought that was the
best way to handle it but because that's
what would be the struggle that would
result from sin
I want to look at tonight the duties of
a Christian man for his woman and I used
it specifically that way and I hope that
this will kind of add on to the idea of
motherhood today as well so before we go
any further let's start with a word of
prayer pray with me
Holy Father we are grateful that you
help us all the time father help all of
our men to be suppliers in the family to
be those that would actually bring in
the supply
and not be takers or expecting
everything to be done for them and they
just take the fruit of that father help
us to be faithful and not irresponsible
help us to be men that our women need us
to be
and we pray father that as a result of
looking at this tonight that those of us
who are sitting here who might have
mistaken some of our needs of what we
need to be
would make those changes and those
changes are difficult father so be
patient with us as we try to become the
men that our women need us to be it's in
the name of Jesus we pray amen
so what is a man-child you ever heard
the term a man-child a man-child
according to Dave Kelly
from the Peter Pan syndrome he wrote a
book back in 1983 he's a psychiatrist
psychologist uh Dan Kelly if you ever
want to read it it's called the Peter
Pan principle men who have never grown
up
basically and it gives you uh six signs
of an inventory partner and you ladies
will probably recognize this quicker
almost than us men
uh here's the list eight qualities they
lack boundaries with their parents
number two they have had they have not
had mature relationships in their life
whether talking about relationship with
men or women their friends that is the
men friends are immature
they can they can't excuse me they can't
keep a job they go from one job to
another
they lack healthy ways to cope with
stress
their relationships with substances is
unhealthy so they tend to use some
substances sometimes that are illegal
but they're a little unhealthy and even
the ones that aren't illegal
they don't or won't help around the
house they either don't help around the
house much or they don't want to help
around the house
they don't express emotions
appropriately that's number eight and
you probably recognize some of those
ladies maybe your man is not a man-child
but maybe he's not as mature as he
should be
in ink Marcel swantes
who is a contributing editor and founder
uh
from leadership the core gives 10 things
women need in a marriage I think I have
those yeah they're up there thank you
number one she needs and and I'm going
to use the term that she uses I think
it's not the correct term the word needs
is maybe not the word but I'm going to
stick with it she needs to be number one
that is to feel that she is more
important than your business your job
more important than your mother more
important than your children more
important than your friends or your
sports or your hobbies but not more
important than your truck or fishing uh
number that was a joke number two that
was a job
number two she needs intimacy uh now why
the wife is stressed out often uh you
gentlemen know that your wife takes
stresses in a different way than you do
and sometimes it's overwhelmed and she
needs to know that you're willing to
share an intimate moment of comfort with
her without demanding explanations or
giving her a lecture on it don't try to
fix her as much you just need to lend an
ear and let her process one of the ways
women seem to process is just by talking
about it
uh number three she needs you to be
vulnerable now not weak but vulnerable
that means open and uh and giving open
uh unobstructed
communication and emotionally available
to her she needs to know that you're
actually engaged in the conversation
number four she needs you to praise her
now that's not the lavish praise but
somewhat of a habit of looking for what
she's done positive and commenting on
that to praise her for the work that she
has accomplished number five she needs
you to let her be part of your team to
help you and to contribute to the things
that matter to you without fearing some
kind of retaliation or anger number six
she needs you to protect and defend her
that's not just from physical harm
obviously that's expected to some degree
because we're usually bigger and
slightly stronger than they are but it's
more important maybe to protect her from
criticism from others
and that she knows you have her back to
at least support her verbally to her
number seven she needs you to make her
feel like her opinion counts to know
that her opinion is valued and valuable
to you potentially for your work
potentially for your business uh and so
to maybe be included in some of the
discussion regarding your business
decisions and to even evaluate her
advice as important to you in your
thinking number eight she needs you to
share your life with her to connect with
you she wants to connect uh
it I know that men we struggle with this
somewhat to even share things that are
bothering us but she wants to be able to
share in your areas of life that that
maybe are sealed off she wants to know
obviously about every area your home
your family your work outside interests
so try not to shut her out number nine
she needs you to be a man of character
and integrity that is a man that her
sons would want to follow and be like or
her daughters would want to marry a man
like number 10 she needs you to hold her
often not physical affection is
important tenderly held to be near you
and that's not having any kind of sexual
overtone at all but rather just to be
held and to be cared for in an intimate
way that you don't do with anybody else
obviously
now after I list all those I got to tell
you that the only problem I have with
all that
is well I say the only problem I got
really a couple of problems one is I'm
not sure the word need is the proper
word I know that she wants those things
I don't know if it's I mean I I think of
eating and that's a need you know
breathing that's a need I think this is
something that's helpful and I'm not
sure just wants fits either that's too
low needs may be too high for me but
somewhere in there but what I want to
focus on I think that's one kind of
wrongness of of that list but another
one is I think what it does is it
focuses on what men need to do for their
women and I think that's a mistake I
think the focus should be on what a man
needs to be not what a man needs to do I
think we need to focus as men we should
focus on what kind of man we need to be
and the doing will follow rather than
focusing on doing things I think you can
do a lot of things things and not be the
man they need you to be so I want to
look at five of those really quickly
that we learned in Bob and Band of
Brothers and Sean gave us when he was
doing the duties of a Christian man
so let's look at those uh the duties of
a Christian man for his his woman his
wife his mother the mother of his kids
number one
which is up there great she needs him to
be the man of God that God created him
to be as an initiator what the point
that Sean made and I thought it was a
really good point is Genesis 2 and verse
7 and the Lord God formed man of the
Dust of the ground and breathed into its
nostrils the breath of life and Man
became a living being that was before
the woman in the order of the events now
we know that God created man and woman
on the sixth day and rested on the
seventh but in the order of events of
Genesis chapter 2 it's clear that the
Man was created first and then the woman
was created as we studied this morning
from the man and so first Timothy 2 and
verse 13 says for Adam was formed first
then Eve so it seems from the way he
designed things man was to be an
initiator one of the things that
sometimes men aren't is they aren't
initiators things need to be done and
the woman has to get started getting
them done because he won't initiate and
accomplish what needs to happen uh that
needs to happen for the sake of the
family so men we need to be the
initiator of many things that we really
don't even want to get into sometimes or
start number two
she needs him to be the man God created
him to be as a worker we need to be
worker bees if you will Genesis 2 15
says then the Lord God took the man and
put him in the Garden of Eden to tend it
and keep it two different things one ten
means the work of making a garden uh
productive the other keep it means to
protect it from outside elements and or
things that would damage it so that's
always been our job to make things work
by working at it and then to protect
those things by damage that might be
caused by others or other things Genesis
3 verse 19 says in the sweat of your
face you shall eat bread so obviously
since the fall of Man work is going to
be hard and it's going to be stuff you
don't want to do and if you love your
work in every way and you find no fault
in it you're not working you're playing
it's supposed to be hard and we're not
supposed to enjoy every aspect of it
it's supposed to be hard but that's what
our ladies need us to do gentlemen and
that is work and work hard and do
whatever has to be done even if it's a
miserable experience number three
she needs him to be the man God created
him to be as a teacher obviously one of
the things immediately that we might not
have noticed but man was assigned a job
of teaching verse 16 to chapter 2 says
and the Lord God commanded the man he
didn't command the man and the woman as
you recall in this story the man is
first and then the woman so he doesn't
command the man and the woman on this
point saying of every tree of the garden
you may freely eat verse 17 but of the
tree of the knowledge of Good and Evil
you shall not eat for in the day that
you eat of it you shall surely die so
literally this was spoken to the man we
don't know if it was ever spoken by God
to the woman so it appears that it
became his responsibility to share that
information with the woman and then
here's what she heard Genesis 3 verse 3
God has said You shall not eat it nor
shall you touch it lest you die now I
don't know if that's what Adam had said
to her or if she had concluded that or
in a discussion that arrived at that or
if God had said that and we don't have a
record of it which is a possibility in
either case but the woman seems to be
repeating what Adam had taught her that
God had told him that's what seems to be
happening in the text so that means that
the man to some degree and woman needs
him to be to some degree a teacher of
things that means that you need to kind
of be on top of your game and need to
know maybe some things about how to get
what needs to happen for your family
done you ought to work at knowing a
little more maybe than she knows and
from time to time help her to know often
it's the reverse of that case and that's
not wrong it's just that the woman
actually would be happier if we were
capable of being a teacher in some of
the situations number four she needs him
to be the man God created him to be as a
Define her a definer so basically in our
text that's what happens Genesis 2 verse
19 says out of the ground the Lord God
formed we talked about this this morning
God formed every beast of the field and
every bird of the air and brought them
to Adam to see what he would call them
and whatever Adam called each living
creature that was its name verse 23 says
and Adam said this is now bone in my
bones and flesh in my flesh she shall be
called woman because she was taken out
of the of man so literally he was the
guy who kind of did that who defined
things that must mean that that was a
role that he wanted him to apply in all
of his life I'm not always sure exactly
how that would play out but it is
interesting to note in Luke chapter 1
and verse 63 it says and he asked for
this is uh Zacharias John the Baptist
father and this is when uh nobody knew
what the name of the boy would be called
and he asked for a writing tablet and
there was having a big discussion within
the family and wrote down saying his
name is John
and then they all marveled at that so he
became the definer they were arguing
about it they didn't want to Elizabeth
to name him that because that wasn't a
part of their family nobody in their
family was named johannen but so he
insisted on that name being the definer
of things
to set out uh and amend this in my mind
I see a family
that it's it's most critical of all for
the men to be a definer of what the
family is going to be and by that I mean
religious and faithful
I think that is supposed to be our role
gentlemen
we're just supposed to don't wait on
your wife to drag you to church
you be the definer of that home we are
going to be
religious we as for me and my house as
Joshua said remember as the definer of
his home as for me and my house We Shall
Serve the Lord I think that's on us
defining the family as it should be and
number five
she needs him the man to be the man God
created him to be as a partner in
Genesis 2 Verse 18 says and the Lord God
said it is not good that man should be
alone I will make him a helper
comparable to him now we had a big
discussion of this in Band of Brothers
about the term Helper and that women
today do not like that term because they
feel like that's demeaning to call a
woman a helper rather than say a partner
or something that affect but that is
what the word means actually is like a
partner and if you don't believe it it's
a respectable position listen to John 14
verse 26 but the helper the Holy Spirit
now you're going to define the Holy
Spirit as being less
the helper the Holy Spirit whom the
father will sin in my name he will teach
you all things and bring to your
remembrance all things that I said to
you now the word for a helper or in John
is the word paraclete which is someone
who comes beside to help you do things
they're there always with you always
working with you
I don't think there's demeaning any more
than its demeaning for the man to need a
helper I don't think either one of those
is demeaning in any way at all but
that's what a partner is someone right
next to you working together with you
so the duties of a Christian man uh
for his woman's sake and I think this is
these are true needs the other things I
think are more in the area of wants and
feel like it would really scratch you
where you inch but I think she needs him
to be the man God created him to be did
it truly be an initiator and not waiting
on her to get everything started to be a
worker and not being behind her she's
always doing all the work and you're
doing nothing
be a teacher helping her understand
things maybe she doesn't understand
particularly about men because it's
interesting to me how men don't think
they understand women but women tend to
think they understand men in my
experiences as most women have no idea
what men are really like because I've
heard them talk and I'm thinking that
isn't what we're like but we don't tell
them we don't tell them so it's hard for
them to know you got to be married 30 40
years before you begin to figure it out
and then a definer and that is what
we're going to be as a family and a
partner so a man a real man must be
relentless in what our jobs are that is
regarding finances we should be
relentlessly on top of that not
expecting her to be on top of that when
things are broken we need to be
relentless about trying to fix the
broken things whatever that is
and when a child comes to you gentlemen
and says Daddy Daddy Daddy Daddy Daddy
Daddy Daddy Daddy Daddy Daddy Daddy
Daddy
and some of y'all have never lived there
I understand but when they do that and
you know you are struggling to answer
back patiently you need to be relentless
about your graciousness your kindness
and concern for the child that is yours
and they're also to do the same to be
relentless about doing the things that
your woman needs you to do a man must be
relentless at taking care of everything
that simply needs to be taken care of
there are no days off gentlemen
you don't get Saturday off you don't get
Sunday off you don't get Monday off
Tuesday off Wednesday off Thursday off
Friday off Saturday you don't get the
Denny days off it is your job to work
whatever needs to be done whenever it
needs to be done when it's fun when it's
not when it's freezing when it's hot it
doesn't matter it's your responsibility
to make sure everything works it may
make you miserable you I remember once I
was out in the yard digging a trench it
was cold and I had 103 degree
temperature but we had a drainage
problem at our house what do you do
exactly you do it right you just do it
if Roger Kipling wrote If and Roger
Kipling died in 1936 so this may sound
dated but I love it and I know some of
you have seen it
if you can keep your head when all about
you are losing theirs and blaming it on
you if you can trust yourself when all
men doubt you but make allowances for
their doubting too
if you can wait and not be tired by
waiting or being lied about don't deal
in lies are being hated don't give way
to hating and yet don't look too good
nor talk too wise if you can dream and
not make dreams your master if you can
think and not make thoughts your aim if
you can meet with Triumph and disaster
and treat those two imposters just the
same if you can bear to hear the truth
you've spoken Twisted by knaves to make
a trap for fools or which the things you
gave your life to Broken to be broken
and stoop and build them up with worn
out tools if you can make one heap of
all your winnings and risk it on one
turn of pitch and toss and and lose and
start again at your beginnings and never
breathe a word about your loss if you
can force your heart and nerve and sin
you to serve your turn long after they
are gone and so hold on when there is
nothing in you except the will which
says to them hold on if you can talk
with crowds and keep your virtue or walk
with Kings nor lose the common touch if
neither foes nor loving friends can hurt
you if all men count with you but none
too much if you can feel the unforgiving
minute with 60 seconds worth of distance
run
yours is the Earth
and everything that's in it
and which is more
you'll be a man a son
so on a day dedicated to women to Mom
particularly
better be said that at least tonight
as gentlemen as men
we all thought about what we need to be
to be the men
she needs us to be
to be a Christian man
that will give honor to the lady in her
life
and to treat her
as fine as anyone has ever thought about
treating her
such a man
such a man is worthy of being called a
Christian
such a man
is the man that every woman would hope
that her man would be
and the place to begin is obviously with
the Lord
because it's a constant struggle based
upon the passage we read at the very
beginning
it's always going to be a constant
struggle with us because sin has worked
its way into us
so if we don't want to have
a lot of trouble in this life and we
want to get along with our mate we need
to realize that sin is at the door
and we've got to be relentless about
being the people we need to be
we want to give you an opportunity to
make a change if you need to to repent
of your sins confess the name of Christ
be baptized tonight we had two baptisms
this morning or to return if you've
wondered away anything we can do to help
if you'll make it known while we stand
and while we sing
when we walk with the Lord in the light
of his word for the glory he sheds on
our way when we do his good will he
abides with us still and with all who
will trust and Obey trust and obey
foreign
be happy indeed in Jesus but to trust
and Obey not a shadow can rise not a
cloud in the sky but a smile quickly
drives it away
not a doubt nor a fear not a sign or a
tear can align what we trust and Obey
trust and Obey foreign
if we trust and Obey trust and the way
for there's no other way to be happy in
Jesus but to trust and obey
