typically when you think of Mission work
you would go to Matthew chapter 28 or
you might go to Mark chapter 16 or maybe
even go to the book of Acts and read
some of the missionary journeys of Paul
to get your mission statements
probably wouldn't go to Matthew chapter
25 but that's exactly where the torch
Mission program gets our mission
statement
this is really deep it really truly is
deep
because it's talking about the Judgment
Day
and Jesus is literally separating the
saved from the Lost
and the criteria that he uses in this
illustration
has everything to do with benevolence
and taking care of the people that are
less fortunate Matthew doesn't mention
anything about your doctrinal beliefs he
doesn't mention anything about your
Creed
he doesn't ask if you follow the steps
of Salvation he simply said did you give
me something to drink did you give me
clothes did you give me food did you
come to visit me when I was in need and
the people said
when did we ever do that we never saw
you like that and the key phrase is
when you did it went to one of the least
of these you did it as if it were me
torch missions grabbed that and we said
if we're gonna step out and do Mission
work
we're going to live by the words of
Matthew chapter 25.
it all starts with reaching out to those
who are in need
now there's great need all over the
world
we suffer with first world problems
the needs that we have are nothing
compared to the needs around the world
and we have people that have traveled to
Africa and to Asia into Central and
South America they've been to Australia
and they know that there are people that
are very much
less fortunate than we are
so my Mission journey began way back
when I was in high school
I went to the Lincoln Church of Christ I
didn't grow up in the church but when I
transferred to a Christian School and
realized that all my friends were going
to church I tagged along and so that's
where my Christian Journey began when I
was a sophomore in high school we sent a
team to a little town called Jessup
Georgia to do a vacation bible school
slash gospel meeting in Georgia and I
went on that trip and I promised you my
life changed at that point it just
totally changed and then when I went off
to Fred Harmon University my freshman
year there was a mission team that was
going to England and Scotland for six
weeks and I was all in and then from
there on I decided that this has got to
be part of who I am I wanted to be part
of doing Mission work in some capacity
in 1991 my wife and I moved to Nashville
Tennessee for a job opportunity that my
wife had
and the church that her brother was
preaching at was the volte Church of
Christ and the youth Minister there was
a man named Steve Davidson who also
worked at Lipscomb University and Steve
was on the brink of this new idea that
he'd come up with and he wanted to take
a mission trip to Honduras
in 1990 1991 Honduras wasn't exactly the
safest place in the world to be going
and when he told me he was taking 28
teenagers to Honduras I was petrified I
was absolutely terrified only an insane
person would even be considering such a
thing and somehow he talked me into
going
I don't even know how he did it but he
talked me into going I went down and
I've been going back ever since
because it changed my life
it totally changed my life
so I got involved with short-term
missions as torch missions gets up and
going a little bit we start going to
youth rallies we would go to electrician
I had a little boost set up for
lectureship week and hundreds and
hundreds of people had come to the
university and were walking around
looking at all the displays and this
gentleman came up to me
took one look at the booth and he said
torch missions
I said yes sir
you are wasting your time
okay you said you are just literally not
only wasting time you're wasting the
Lord's money you're wasting the Lord's
resources and you're not making any
difference whatsoever your time down in
Honduras is nothing but a drop of water
in a bucket
I didn't know what to say
I didn't know what to say I wasn't
prepared for that
we'll come back and we'll talk about
that gentlemen later on
torch missions began in 1988 from volte
church Christ since that time torch has
grown to multiple teams every year
hundreds of people go down every year
through torch missions teams can range
from a small group of a dozen people
maybe to over a hundred the largest team
that I've ever worked with that I led to
Honduras was 165.
when we go down to Honduras we are
looking to accomplish feeding the hungry
providing clothes and shoes for those
who need them visiting the sick and
providing medical attention visiting
those that are lonely visiting those
that are in prison and fulfilling these
words we try to accomplish those things
every time we go on a trip
torch missions conducts many different
types of ministry our trip here from
Creekside is not the only torch team
that goes to Honduras there's multiple
teams that go all year long some teams
specialize in medical we have a team
from California that goes down and they
spend a week and they do surgery for
children that were born with cleft
pallets and cleft lips and things like
that we have some that go down that
strictly build houses we have some that
go down that strictly do evangelism work
the team that I leave
we focus on evangelism medical
construction benevolence and visitation
we try to do all those things in the
amount of time that we go down
trips range from a week to a month or
more
torch machines was designed for
teenagers because Barna and his research
concluded after serving like 20 000
teenagers that one of the number one
things that teenagers needed to transfer
their faith from their parents Faith to
their own personal faith was mission
work
and so we started out as a cultural
immersion experience for teenagers to
show them what life in a third world
country is like
and it's not like the life we live here
at all
we wanted them to experience the
cultural differences the language the
culture everything about it today torch
teams are made up of all different age
groups from teenagers all the way up to
senior citizens teams a wide range of
educational backgrounds work experience
work skills we've grown it's no longer
just for teenagers
Creekside
began working with torch and Foundation
Christian about 10 years ago with a guy
named Steve Davidson and we have led
teams from here to Honduras Costa Rica
and Guatemala during the past 10 years
Creekside fcaa have sent nearly 200
people
to do work in Honduras and Central
America
during this time other congregations
South Trail Orange Avenue Winter Haven
Bay Area Leesburg and there's more have
also traveled with us and sent people to
work with us
people from Alabama Mississippi
Tennessee Kentucky Texas California
Pennsylvania West Virginia and Louisiana
have been with us on our trips we also
recruit students from Harding freed
Hardiman Lipscomb Faulkner lips and
Lubbock Christian to go on our trips all
said and told over the last 10 years
more than 80 congregations of the Lord's
church has worked with us
in Honduras
Rex I don't know about you but
I've lived in a lot of places and I've
never seen 80 congregations work
together on anything
if you know what I'm talking about
but we have we see it all the time we
have young we have old we have people
from all these different religious
backgrounds it's amazing all these
different teams I've been talking about
are autonomous
teams work under the rules and the
protocols of a mission board that we
have that's made up of four
team leaders and we basically have made
up some of the rules and Protocols of
what you should and shouldn't do when
you're in a foreign country like
Honduras and then each team Works under
the oversight of an eldership I've been
working under the eldership of the
Kittanning church for the last 25 years
containing sins some of their Elders
every year on the trip one of their
Elders is one of our co-leaders Mr Brian
Steffy he's my right hand man on these
trips I had a really interesting
discussion with the congregation a few
years ago and they couldn't understand
this concept of being autonomous how can
each team be autonomous and so I asked
him are churches autonomous and he said
yeah that's different
I said no not really
each team is autonomous and they all
answer to the congregation that oversees
them
and so the conversation took a left turn
really fast and he said why don't you
just have one church that oversees the
whole thing wouldn't that be better
I said are you volunteering your church
to do that he goes maybe what are we
talking about here
at the time I said there's about seven
or eight hundred people that go every
year and our working budget somewhere
around 2.5 million dollars
do you have treasure that's gonna be
willing to handle all that
that was a discussion he understood at
that point why we're autonomous during
our trip alone about 150 200 000 will
flow through the containing treasury for
our trip and
it's a handful but they're willing to do
it
and I'm very grateful for it so let's
take a quick look at Honduras you may be
asking why do we go to Honduras in the
first place it's the second poorest
country in the Western Hemisphere the
only other country poor is Haiti believe
it or not it's a very friendly place
it's very American friendly it's very
receptive for people coming in to do
Mission work and to do benevolence and
humanitarian work it may be a surprise
to you but Americans are not welcome
everywhere around the world
we don't have a sterling reputation in
some corners of the world but in
Honduras
we do
there's the map Honduras is right in the
middle of Central America almost 10
million people live there
and eighty percent of the population
lives in three cities if you're wanting
to do evangelism work
you couldn't ask for better setup than
this the capitalists Agape it's a
religious country to start with and it's
actually it's a really beautiful place
it's democratic government set up very
much like the United States that's about
the size of Tennessee maybe as far as
the lands concerned very mountainous
throughout the country
they have two seasons rainy and dry
66 of Hondurans live on less than ten
dollars a day
25 of the population lives on less than
two dollars a day
so to say that they live from day to day
is an understatement and so the
humanitarian assistance that can be
provided means everything to them
in the capital itself there's about
three million people and this is where
we work this is like headquarters for us
we work in and around usagapa because we
can reach a third of the population in
one town
we're self-sufficient when we get down
there we have our own buses we have our
own bus drivers we have our own facility
it's called agua Viva it's located in a
little town called Santa Ana which is up
in the mountains above tegucigapa it is
the most beautiful place if you've ever
been to the Smoky Mountains of Tennessee
you've been to
Santa Ana that's exactly what it looks
like it's really a beautiful place our
property has dormitories a dining hall
kitchen recreational area soccer Court
Snack Shack a pavilion parking area
Amphitheater a bodega which is a fancy
word for a storehouse right next door is
Clinica de Esperanza which is a free
medical clinic and a dental clinic and
on the other side of the property is the
Santa Ana Church of Christ we helped
establish both of these and help build
both of those and we have a great
working relationship with them
dormitories are very comfortable
bedrooms are set up to house as many as
100 or more people at a time Linens
pillows blankets are provided rooms are
set up to accommodate different numbers
of people depending on the room every
room's got restrooms hot water showers
storage areas and all the water in Agua
Viva is purified and safe to drain which
is really a blessing our property is
safe it's secure it's on about 12 acres
of land we have Fiber Optic internet
laundry service meals are provided by a
tremendous staff of cooks I just cannot
tell you how good the food is it's
fantastic morning devotionals are often
held in our Amphitheater there's a
picture of it here from this last trip
if you look closely you can see Keegan
standing down there giving the lesson he
did a fantastic job as the keynote
speaker for our morning devotionals
obviously we go out there if the weather
permits and then we would break Devo and
we would head off on our buses to go
work for the day typically getting back
around five o'clock and time to eat
dinner
after dinner our team cleans the dining
hall and we set it up for the evening
devotional the evening devotional is
done inside because it's usually raining
by night this is a brand new dining hall
we just literally we finished it while
we were there it can hold about 150
people the singing in there is fantastic
the evening speaker was Kade McDowell
who was a senior pre-med student from
Lubbock Christian Kate and Keegan kind
of tag teamed on the theme oh to be one
in Christ
Cade was the Big Man on Campus
because he's six foot eleven
he's also my nephew so I call him shorty
but he's a great guy here's a picture of
our team our team was made up of 75
people from eight different states
39 of our members came from Creekside
and Foundation Christian as usual we had
a wide range of workers ages ranged from
a seven-year-old
to a 76 year old and about 40 percent of
the team was the first time they'd ever
been to Honduras
the picture shows some of the luggage we
took down with this besides our own
personal stuff every suitcase had
supplies that were needed for our
projects like medicine and tools shoes
clothing toys stuffed animals and that's
just some of our luggage that we took
with us so our daily schedule if you
were to go on one of our trips this is
what it looks like you'll hear the
phrase welcome to Honduras
about every single day
we're not welcoming you to a beautiful
country that's a catchphrase for
something happening and the plans have
changed so my job is to come up with the
schedule I do it the night before
going to bed knowing that schedule is
not going to work the weather's not
going to cooperate a bus is going to
break down a delivery truck is not going
to make it on something's going to
happen every single day so we prepped
Everybody by just knowing that we're
going to have a plan B a plan C and
we're going to be flexible
and it was amazing how flexible this
group was
so we wake up at six we have breakfast
at seven devote eight 9 15 we're getting
ready to leave 9 30 we're out the door
we're back home around five or six six
o'clock is Dinner seven thirties evening
devotional few minutes of free time and
then off to the dorms for quiet time
unless you're Keegan
he went to bed whenever he wanted to
just because he knew it bothered me to
the eldership I just want to say I don't
know how you do it I'm just saying he's
a great guy he really is he just doesn't
know how to follow rules workday is
usually involved about three or four
different work opportunities the
projects are announced the night before
gives you a chance to think about what
you might want to do you wake up in the
morning during breakfast you sign up for
a project and then after the morning
devotional you would do that project if
the one that you wanted to do filled up
then you would have a second choice or
maybe even a third choice and we would
just basically say the Lord knows where
he wants you today so be flexible
so what were the project options okay so
each day there's multiple options
we try to encourage everyone to try
everything
right we have some we have guys that go
down there
I'm gonna use Aaron as my example
because he's like the perfect example I
remember the first time Aaron went down
I'm down here to build houses
okay great I want you to go visit I want
you to do some of this other nope I'm
here to build houses I sling Hammers and
I run chainsaws
about four days into the trip we had a
project called Daughters of the king
Daughters of the king is basically like
a spa day for the little girls down
there and we go into an orphanage and we
wash their hair and we give them a new
dress and new shoes and we do the
fingernails and give them jewelry and we
take their picture for them and we just
want them to know that they're a
daughter of the king and typically what
happens is once they're all decked out
they want to turn around
and do that to you so we're the bus is
coming back in and Aaron comes off the
bus and his fingernails have been
painted pink and it was the most
beautiful shade of pink I ever saw
and Aaron told me I like Daughters of
The King and I couldn't hardly get him
to go back to build any houses after
that we want you to try all the
different things because you never know
what you might be good at okay so we
have medical Bobby and Asha run our
medical program
in case you don't know this Bobby runs a
very tight ship
he does and it's awesome it is a machine
in action during the three days of our
medical clinics we had other doctors and
nurses and Pharmacists and we had Med
students from Lubbock and we had all
these people and during those three days
our clinic saw
650 patients in three days
ask your doctor next time you go to the
doctor ask them how many patients they
see on a typical day
it's not 650. and it runs like a machine
it's just the most amazing thing okay we
do evangelism
we do this in different ways last year
Jesus was on our trip and Jesus preached
the gospel meeting at the Santa Ana
Church did a fantastic job because he
speaks Spanish we didn't need an
interpreter that was awesome
of course the rest of us had no idea
what he's talking about but it was good
I know it was good this year we did not
do a gospel meeting but we did have a
vacation bible school team that was
headed up by Victoria and they did a
three-day VBS in Santa Ana we had a
three-day ladies Bible class that was
really well attended we went out and we
distributed Bibles and Bible tracks and
Bible lessons in the community and we
also had 17 devotionals within our team
that this year
benevolence we do a lot of service
projects projects include painting
cleanup projects repairing things we
give away shoes and clothes at a local
elementary school
we gave away 450 bags of food each bag
of food is prepped to feed six people
for a week
so that's about 2 000 people receive
Food
for a week
so for those families that are living
day to day
mouth the mouths
and they have a full week's worth of
food in their house
that actually gives them an opportunity
to take their money and spend it for
other things that they probably need but
they can't afford
It's a Wonderful blessing
all right we do visitation we spend a
lot of time at an orphanage called the
Desco we did a thing called the banquet
for Jesus where we go in and we prepare
lunch for the kids and for the staff and
then we just play games and hang out
with them in the afternoon and the cooks
and everybody get the day off which is
just one of the most fun things that we
do when we go down there we went to a
local elementary school they had about
250 kids and we did a vacation bible
school there we did the school supply
giveaway we did clothes shoes food bags
and toys and we were able to bless those
families
and we do construction
and this is probably what we're most
well known for since 1995 Taurus
missions has built over 3 700 houses in
Honduras
every family that we built a house for
did not have a house before we got there
or they had a house that was in such
terrible condition the best thing we
could do for them is tear it down and
build a new one okay we've also built
schools we've had the honor of help
helping build five schools in Honduras
we built two orphanages and we've built
17 Church buildings over since 1995. we
built playgrounds
eight of those and then we build odds
and InStep we build benches and bunk
beds and flower boxes we built Bridges
staircases
we build a lot of stuff
this year we raised the money to build
13 houses within our trip 12 to 13
houses were dedication houses built to
honor someone dedication houses are
always super special to the team because
it's almost always somebody that we know
we were able to build a house this this
year for my dad and also a house for
Prince Davis
and we also did a lot of repair work on
a playground that you'll see later our
medical clinics are done in remote
locations where there is no medical care
we went to a village this year
they have not seen a medical
professional since 1984.
1984 a thousand people lived in that
community and we saw about 300 of them
and so we're hoping that next year we
can go back and see the ones that we
missed our clinics are completely free
of charge the medicines are free
everything is free including the
vitamins
okay our clinics include
over-the-counter medicines hygiene
supplies and Dr Bobby has the pharmacy
super well organized we have over 50
different medicines that are that's in
our Pharmacy and it's well stopped and
we can handle 650 people
with medicine left over to give to
Clinica The Esperanza evangelism now I'm
going through just pictures of the group
you'll see a picture of the VBS team at
work you probably recognize I can't tell
are the pictures big enough that you can
even see them they look really good on
my computer benevolence we did daughters
and King I already told you what that is
we did a lot of visitation we did a
banquet for Jesus and mourn there's a
picture of Will skiver washing the feet
of a little girl Victoria
I'm not sure what you're doing Victoria
it looks like you're sorting food rice
and I picture a couple little boys they
got some superhero toys out of the deal
oops a couple more pictures picture of
Tammy and you can see Keegan back there
they are sorting rice it looks like
and on the right hand side Beverly's
daughter
granddaughter sorry is playing games at
dadasco
Desiree really loved the trip
there's a picture of Jaden
washing hair a picture of Rosa
sorting beans
picture Beverly
riding on the bus you can see the bags
of food in the background that we're on
our way to deliver those bags of food to
families
the playground that we built at dadesco
major repair work and then we put a
Fresh coat of paint on it and then
picture on the right it's just having
time playing with kids
picture of Keegan and all of his glory
that's what I had to deal with every
single day
that's the face I saw every morning and
then we have pictures at dadasco picture
of Josh height painting part of the
playground
we have our houses are made like a kits
and when the woods delivered a lot of
the woods already pre-cut we can start a
house and finish a house in less than
four hours on on average tongue and
groove siding tin roofs the guys up on
top of roofs and the girls we call them
roof monkeys there is a weight limit on
people that are allowed to get up there
and there's a picture of Aaron
presenting the prince Davis house to the
new owner if you look in the back you
can see the plaque that we gave her that
talks about Prince Davis
construction and when we get done that's
what the houses look like one door one
window Tin Roof wooden floor we include
a welcome home
box that has plates and silverware
blankets pots pants and other supplies
to get a house you don't have to have
any there's no strings attached you
simply have to prove that you own the
land and get your name put in the hats
and when we build a house we literally
reach into that we pray we reach into
the hats and we pull out a name and
that's who gets the house and the
community comes in to help build
it's really amazing no animosity
everybody knows that how we do it and
they're very happy for the people that
get the houses they're so happy and they
know at some point their time will come
when God
in God's time we always connect them to
the local preacher when we get finished
usually the local preacher will come in
and visit maybe even help out in the
building so that the family knows the
connection between us and the church and
the community
repairing a playground
a picture of Rosa and Margaret
holding the wall
in place
picture of Margaret
painting
a lot of construction I had to get one
picture never made just so you know I do
actually do things down there a picture
of Will skiver trimming a couple boards
there
and then the completion of the slide and
an idea of how big the houses are that
we build on that right hand side all
right so the 2000 23 Hunters mission
team wants to thank everyone that helped
make this trip possible from the elders
to so many people that donated money or
donated supplies we had a we had a box
out in the lobby and every Sunday when
I'd walk by it would just be full of
supplies and then the next Sunday it
would be full again we could not have
done this trip without you we did make a
long lasting impression on the people
that we served
and we made a long lasting impression on
those of us that went on the trip are
you ready to go next summer
because people in Honduras are ready for
us so let me go back to my friend that I
met that told us that what we did
doesn't amount to a drop of water in a
bucket
after 32 years of working in Honduras
and
building 17 Church buildings and
building five or six schools a couple
orphanages building 3 700 houses
Distributing thousands and thousands and
thousands of bags of food and giving
away tens of thousands of pieces of
clothing and visiting and the gospel
meetings and over 500 baptisms
I would love to see that man one more
time
to let him know that we need a bigger
bucket
because we are making a difference
every year
we make a difference and you're a part
of it and I can't thank you enough for
it we're gonna be doing two trips we're
doing a trip to Guatemala which is June
22nd through June 29th and we'll be
doing the hunters trip July 1st through
July 11th and if you want more
information
say Margaret and I will be glad to help
you out we really would because we'd
love to see you go the Honduras trip has
created
a Revival of sorts at Foundation
Christian
it's changed the culture of our school
as soon as kids roll into sixth grade
they start hearing about it and each
year we have more and more people that
sign up to go
I would love to tell you that Foundation
Christian is full of kids from strong
Church families
that are actively involved in their
local congregations but sad truth is
they're not many of our students come
from unchurched families
and they're going to Foundation because
it's a good academic school it's a safe
School
and our jobs
is to show them
who Jesus is
how their connection
fits in the grand scheme of things and
then getting them tied into activities
like Honduras really makes a difference
maybe you've realized that wow the Great
Commission
is not a suggestion
Jesus didn't say if you can get around
to it if it's not too overly
inconvenient
he put it on the table and he said I
want you to go and I want you to make
disciples of all Nations
baptizing them in the name of the father
son of the Holy Spirit
and here's the best part and LOL I'll be
with you always
great commissions for you we all have to
step up and do our part because I think
the Great Awakening
is upon us
and I hope that you want to be part of
it too
