Sir Ken Robinson if some of you will
probably watch TED Talks this is several
years ago back in 2009 this particular
video has been seen by over 300 million
people in 150 different countries so it
is pretty popular if you want to watch
it it's about and the title is to
schools kill creativity and he tells a
story in that that I've I've always
loved it's about an elementary school
teacher that had one particular little
girl six-year-old that wasn't particular
particularly involved and didn't seem to
be interested in anything the teacher
had to say much ever until it was time
for uh drawing class or art and so all
of a sudden she she noticed that this
one little girl spent like 20 minutes
just all Circle up around her drawing
and was doing like this and didn't want
anybody to see and she's drawing away
and finally the teachers I mean she's
never been involved in anything up until
now so the teacher walks over says U
well what you doing little girl and she
said well I I'm drawing a picture of God
and the teacher said but nobody knows
what God looks like she said they will
in a
minute I think that says a lot about us
that uh when we're young maybe we all
are creative schools have curriculums by
necessity uh but they can become too
controlling uh me memorizing facts don't
you love that facts dates names it seems
so unnecessary doesn't it can you
remember any of them now
1492 that's when they discovered vaccine
uh they teach you not to color outside
the lines and the core of the curriculum
is be good by being quiet and sitting
still that's the most important thing
they teach you in school right be quiet
sit still
and do your
work uh school does not actively try
it's not a point of school to destroy
creativity but it can schools can favor
Conformity over the skill of critical
thinking for example
okay we all believe lawyers should go to
school I mean and it's a three-year
degree if I if I have a legal problem
and it's serious I want a lawyer that
went to school not just it went to
school for 3 years but I want him to
pass the bar and I want him to be
licensed in the state I've got a problem
in right I want him to know what he's
doing if it's an important issue with me
and yet I know that's actually not
necessary I know this because I watched
the so show Suits and a guy named Mike
Ross just remembered everything he ever
read so he didn't need to go to law
school right y'all don't know anything
about what I'm talking about do
you but he could is such a person
possible actually they are people like
or maybe the rather I should say want
control and I know this in a very
unusual way I discovered how much church
people want to control things I I didn't
know that you know I got into Ministry I
had no idea that church people wanted to
control so much but they want control
even if they have no idea what we ought
to do with
it okay see Paul ran into that and I'd
read Paul's writings and I didn't know
what he was talking about probably you
don't either but he talked about
something that that I didn't know
anything about in still I started
planting churches and I I've helped
plant about 10 churches now so I'm kind
of catching on right and I and I did six
uh 7 in South Africa 2 Corinthians 10:
10 says for his letters they say are
weighty and Powerful but his bodily
presence is weak and his speech
contemptible that's the people at the
corent church why did they say that
about Paul do you
know here's here's the thing uh people
in New churches want control even when
they've never even been baptized they
want control and they want the people
who start those churches to get out of
Dodge as quick as you can because they
won't control now I know that sounds
bizarre but I know it for a fact I ran
into it too many
times
uh so Elders all over the place you may
think it just here but everywhere I've
been Elders all over the place are
second guest and they're second guest by
smarter people and sometimes they are
smarter but they don't know what the
elders
know and these people can be spotted
easy because they don't make
suggestions they make
attacks pay attention to the difference
in
terminology maybe like me
though you're not very Orthodox I'm
really not very
Orthodox um my mentors just I'm going to
tell you a little bit about myself today
it's not normal for me to do that did it
last week somebody thought that was a
great thing but I don't think so my
mentors were Gus Nichols that was my
preacher Wayne Prim a great man Earl
Barnett you don't know these people
James cullins Rex Turner senior uh
Curtis Kates Earl West Wendell Winkler
those were my mentors those were the
people who made me whoever I am today I
but I didn't go to the right preacher
training schools I
didn't I'm a subpar
preacher that's the truth if you you
look at my resume that's absolutely true
uh and and I've never really felt
uh compelled to be Orthodox even though
they felt that I should
be my only Creed as far as I'm concerned
is Jesus and beyond that I'm not all
that interested in lining
up uh I'm not a word only preacher I
believe the Holy Spirit works on
us I believe I think for myself do you
think you can think for yourself and
even my kids think and they'll tell you
dad I think think you're too broadminded
they've told me
that um my views on everything have
changed from time to
time I agree with everything that we
teach to a
degree but some push it too far and
almost everything we
believe call it creative call it liberal
call it conservative I really don't care
what you call it I I think for
myself and I believe every word that
proceeds out of the mouth of God I just
don't believe every word that proceeds
out of your mouth or my
mouth my man's mouth just don't believe
in and you can say whatever you want it
doesn't mean I have to salute it and no
more do you have to salute what I
say
Amen Jesus was also out of the control
of the SC standard schools of thought in
his day he really was Jesus was not
under their schooling Matthew 13:54 he
taught them in their synagogue so that
they were astonished and said where did
this man get this wisdom he's only 30
years old how in the world is he even a
rabbi was a 30y old man have the right
to even be doing this and they
questioned it Jesus did not study under
their
Grace Jesus was not indoctrinate
indoctrinated to their political
ambition I conditions and Jesus did not
fit nearly into their social or
spiritual structures like they wanted
him to their schools of thought was
holding on to Power number
one
control was the issue you don't believe
that John 11:
45-50 says this the chief priests and
the uh Pharisees gathered in counsel and
said what shall we do for this man works
many signs if we let him alone like this
everyone will believe in him and the
Romans will come and take away both our
place and nation and one of them
Caiaphas being high priest that year
said to them you know nothing at all nor
do you consider that it is expedient for
us that one man should die for the
people and not that the whole nation
should perish we need to kill him
Matthew
27:18 they had handed him over it says
because of of Envy they didn't like it
that the crowds listen to him but
authoritarians and dictatorial people
and they're prolific and we have them in
this
church I'm not naming anybody cuz I
don't know who you
are but authoritarian and dictatorial
people have often Justified their
controls and their power as only doing
what the people wanted them to do
let me read you a few names Adolf Hitler
bito molini Joseph Stalin miles Seton
Kim ilung Paul pot Nikita kusf Fernando
Marcos Robert magabi IL Amin austo
pinese Sadam mosovich
Sadam Hussein and Fidel Castro in Luke
7: 49 this people know not the law and
are cursed those were the words of the
Pharisees and the Sadducees you can't
trust the people we know the
word see Jesus could not be
controlled he could not be controlled
and the powerful feared his Rising power
as as if it was scary look at what he
was capable of his triumphal entry was
like some Prince oh we got to watch him
we got to get rid of him his Temple
cleansing was like some priest oh he
could rival us his tree wither and he
could make a tree wither overnight was
like some prophet and his territorial
messaging was like some power he's like
wants to be the ruler of the whole
Kingdom actually the whole world
actually the whole universe but that's a
whole different story so
no we don't need to be
seditionists and Rebels no they reject
all authority Jude 1 ver9 I am not for
that I am Pro Elders I Am pro deacons I
Am pro churches making decisions for
themselves I'm just not pro one little
guy in the middle of nowhere telling
everybody what we all got to do I ain't
Pro that I don't care who we talking
about
out nor do we need the biblical
automatons so focused on doing every
thing so perfectly that they're willing
to run over everybody they'll dot every
eye cross every tea of scripture and
then exclude the concepts of Love mercy
and Grace Matthew
23:23 but if we're not careful we will
never notice that our schools of thought
have and can kill the creative and leave
us Barren of any kind of balance in our
thinking and our thoughts and we have to
maintain that leaders preachers teachers
Elders Ministry leaders deacons beware
of becoming the one who would kill any
creative
thought the answer and I'm concerned
about all of our schools I'm concerned
about every school out there for our
kids I want you to learn kids but I also
want the teachers to learn and I also
think that we all need to learn and at
the same time be
creative so do schools of thought kill
the creative the answer is not yes or no
but rather it's take care be careful
because you can and our text is about
that our text is about
that number one
not recognizing positional examination
can kill the creative one what's
positional examination let's read it
again Matthew
21:23 hey Riley Matthew 21:23 she waved
at me sorry now when he came into the
temple the chief priests and the Elders
of the people confronted him as he was
teaching and said by what Authority are
you doing these things and who gave you
this Authority we're the ones in
Authority who gave you Authority that's
the
question now listen to me we can never
fear positions in the
church I respect eldership but I want
tell you something One Elder don't
dictate terms to me nor should he you it
is the
eldership just like it is the
congregation that makes decisions so
there's no such thing as one man
becoming the king Elder no such thing as
that period And I want to tell you
something I don't have to answer to one
of
them I answer to the eldership you do
too but so when somebody starts thinking
like you listen to
me you need to sit down I don't care who
you are calm yourself calm yourself take
some take a laxative something
positional examinations can kill the
small the weak and the powerless heart
that's Matthew 18:6 you offend one of
the little ones it'd be better if a
millstone were hanged about your neck
and you drowned in the depths of the sea
little people have to think amen we've
got to grow we got to develop beware not
recognizing positional examination can
kill the creative one I want to tell you
something I'll answer anybody's question
but don't start thinking you're the
boss amen
amen
husbands amen
wives just because I answer your
questions listening to you do doesn't
mean you're the boss suddenly church
people answer your questions every one
of them you ask me a qu I'll answer you
question I don't care what subject it is
I'm not afraid of any subject amen but
you ain't the boss you're just a person
we're having a conversation respect amen
because if we don't go that way it will
kill any sense of creativity or any
sense of anybody thinking well you know
I'm going to try
something probably don't understand what
I'm talking about yet stay with me not
recognizing providential evidence can
kill the creative one Matthew 21 let's
start still in this text verse 24 but
Jesus answered and said to them I also
will ask you one thing which if you tell
me I likewise will tell you what
Authority I by what Authority I do these
things the baptism of
John where was it
from from heaven or from
men now why was that in
question well they didn't have control
over it and they didn't want to do it
and they didn't do it right but why
here's the reason John 10 verse
41 John performed no
miracle everything that happened around
John was
providential it's
providential now I'm going to tell you
something there a lot of folks that
believe the Miracles of the Bible but
they don't believe in the Providence of
God they don't believe God engaged in
our life providential and spirit work
evidence is ignored by people who want
to have
control they ignore and it kills the
heart 2 Corinthians 3 and verse 6 talks
about how that the letter if I if I
point to this too hard the letter kills
if you don't have the spirit behind it
you got to have the spirit behind it
otherwise the letter kills and the
spirit gives life there's got to be a
heart behind this whole thing this whole
thing this thing called a church there's
got to be a heart behind it the spirit
of God's got to be behind it there's got
to be an attitude of love joy peace
patience kindness goodness faithfulness
gentl and self-control that's got to be
the undering not the Bible you got to do
it that way you got to do it that way
you got to do it that way there's got to
be a heart underneath that it'll destroy
us it'll kill creativity it'll create a
a mind that wants to study and learn
beware not recognizing providential
evidence can kill the creative one and
they didn't they didn't recognize it the
ones who were against him number
three not recognizing political evasion
can kill the creative one
Matthew 21 staying with me in verse 25
the baptism of John where is it from
from heaven or from men and they reason
among themselves saying now listen this
is what they say if we say that means
they could say anything they
want and they're measuring what they're
going to say not what they
believed that's a big difference what
we're going to say what we really
believe
if we say from Heaven he will say to us
why then did you not believe him but if
we say from Men We Fear the multitude
for all count John is a prophet verse 27
so they answered Jesus and said we do
not know and he said to them neither
will I tell you by what Authority I do
these things in other words really I'm
not going to say it's not they didn't
have an opinion they had an opinion but
they were so politically involved in how
they handled the people and what they
said and how they tried to be political
and say just so so that they stayed in
power
they folks we cannot fear the answers
listen to me we cannot fear the answers
and who they might offend you can't do
that what am I teaching on Wednesday
night marriage divorce and remarriage
probably the hardest subject we're going
to talk about in the Brotherhood other
than Grace and the Book of Revelation
maybe in the Book of Romans some of
those things may be harder but nobody
wants to hardly look at it you don't
even want to look at it you know but boy
you'll hold a hard line on it but you
don't know what the bible really says on
the whole
subject we cannot fear the answers we
can't fear the questions there cannot be
any kind of fear like that that's
politics
political evasion is hypocrisy and it's
pretense and it can kill the innocent
heart Matthew
23:13 they shut up the Kingdom of Heaven
against themselves they're not entering
in but they prevent others from entering
in because they're so politically
correct they're scared to death of
everything quit being afraid of your
Shadow believe what you believe stand on
what you believe amen stand on what you
believe beware not recognizing political
evasion can kill the the creative
one it'll kill the people in the
church I know some of you don't
understand what I'm talking about do
schools of thought kill the creative not
yes or no but
beware positional examination I'm in a
position you're not I'm examining you be
aware of that providential evidence
don't even want to look at it has
nothing to do with what God did give us
this property I've had people come up to
me even recently and saying why in the
world are we doing all of this it's
because not just because we've got it
but because of what God did to get us
here and we noticed it and we're aware
of it amen
elders and then political evasion this
idea of you got to be careful how you
answer a question just tell the
truth how can you say that well I've
experienced and many of you have as
well one of my teachers in school
accused me of cheating when I scored
really high on tests couple of grade
levels
above she hated
me guess what she was the worst teacher
I ever
had I know she hated
me worst teacher I ever had she tried to
drown any sense of creativity
but sometimes you know you need to
understand it's okay if you haven't been
trained right it's okay if you went to a
school that tried to drown your
creativity it's okay you
see I had in one of preacher training
classes I was in I had another preacher
say about me Rex just knows just enough
Bible to be
dangerous it's probably
true
sometimes you really need to
see what you know you see from a
different angle and realize maybe what
you know is true is not
true that's hard I'm going to have to
say that again some of y'all didn't get
that
listen
sometimes Church of Christ
folks
you really need to
see what you know you
see from a different angle and
realize that maybe what you know is
true is maybe not
true now I have a story I don't know I
have no idea 10:05 oh I can't I oh I got
a great story I want to tell you it's so
good it it's it's up here I'll take it's
that barometer story it's so great you
you would go home just that you'd be
saying that's what the lesson was all
about and and and I really so want to
take but I'm not going to
take CU we don't have
time I talk to much about everything
else why I preach such a lesson is do
schools of thought kill the creative
listen not recognizing POS positional
examinations can kill the creative One
not recognizing provid evidence can kill
the creative One not recognizing
political evasion can kill the creative
one how do I know because they killed
the creative
one God made the world through the word
the word became flesh and dwelt among us
and we beheld his glory the glory of his
only begotten of the father full of
grace and truth in the beginning was the
word the word was with God and the Word
was God all all things were made by him
without him not anything was made that
was
made he created all this and they killed
the creative one so don't tell me
schools of thought I'm not saying
schools schools of thought when we go
down rabbit holes too deep we'll kill
everything we'll kill the
church it won't exist there won't be a
church in the future if we don't
recognize people have to be able to
think people have to be able to decide
for themselves people have to say you
know I don't know if I like that about
the church you need to be able to say
that I need to be able to ask a question
about the church why do we do this or
that or the other you need to be able to
ask that question amen I don't care what
it is you need to be able to ask that
question you need to be able to argue
with me you need to be able to argue
with the elders you need to be able to
have an opinion that doesn't reflect
anybody else
here and if you don't recognize that
that's critical you're part of the
problem cuz honestly people like that
killed
Jesus so I don't want to be a part of
the one killed Jesus do you I want be a
part of the one who just reads the Bible
and accepts whatever it says and gets
along with my brothers there's someone
here who wants to be a part of that kind
of movement then you can repent of your
sins confess the name of Christ be
baptized day and by the way it doesn't
matter who baptizes you so I'm not
important in this equation it's your
relationship with the Lord I'm not
important I'll be gone one
day the church is what matters don't
kill it God bless you if you need to
come come while we stand and while we
sing
