you know from the beginning the very
beginning of creation if you believe the
Bible which we do the very beginning of
creation is the fall of Man and from
that point on we have as mankind known
that we were not good enough by
ourselves we're just not uh we're not
good enough to be saved we're not good
enough to appeal to a holy
God and there are many examples around
us about how come that true because we
are constantly failing we have errors
all around us all the time for example 2
million documents are lost by the IRS
every year but apparently never has lost
my
forms 22,000 checks are deducted from
the wrong account every 60
Minutes
1,314 telephone calls are
misdirected every minute
2,488 books are shipped off to people
with the absolute wrong cover on
them
5.5 million plus cases and this is the
most upsetting of all I mentioned so far
5.5 million cases of flat soft drinks
are sold every year
20,000 incorrect drug prescriptions are
written every
year 12 babies are given to the wrong
parents every day I always wondered
about one or two of
mine being good enough is not good
enough we have
failings Martin Luther wrote this the
most damnable and pernicious heresy that
has ever plagued the mind of man is the
idea that somehow man could make himself
good enough to deserve to live with an
all holy
God it's not
possible in the
beginning the truth is God did not want
us to know good good and evil now think
about that just a second it didn't just
say God did not want us to know
evil God did not want us to know good
have you ever considered that Genesis 2
verse 99 says the tree of life was also
in the midst of the garden and the tree
of knowledge of Good and Evil and the
Lord God commanded the man saying of
every tree of the garden you may freely
eat but of the the tree of the knowledge
of Good and Evil you shall not eat for
in the day that you eat of it you shall
surely
die see God did not want man to know
evil and what is evil well evil is a lot
of things but in this text in the Hebrew
it means
distress
misery injury
hurt calamity
adversity
disaster harm ruin trouble
unpleasantness wickedness all of that he
didn't want you to know it never wanted
man to know that but he certainly didn't
want them to know good and evil now
that's interesting God didn't want you
to know good in light of Good and Evil
what is good well we think we know what
it means hear what it means in the
Hebrew it means well it means glad it
means pleasing it means to enjoy it
means Pleasant it means agreeable
beneficial it means to be for your
welfare it's gracious it's happy and it
brings
Prosperity that's good you see the truth
is that God did not want man to know
good and evil well what was God up to
then God wanted man first to know
God you see good and evil doesn't make
sense without a knowledge of God first
so maybe what was really going on here
is not that God never wanted us to know
the concept of evil or the concept of
good but rather you don't understand the
concepts of good and evil without
understanding God first it may have been
kind of a timing thing it's kind of like
well let I I don't want to be vulgar but
let me just say it like this it's kind
of like
sex it's not that sex is a bad thing but
there is a time and a place and that's
in marriage for that to occur and in
that zone then it's perfectly good and a
blessing to all it's in involved in it
so there is such a thing as a season and
a time for every purpose under Heaven is
Ecclesiastes says or as Galatians 4 says
when the fullness of time was come so
there may have been a time later that
God would have been okay with man eating
of that tree but he wasn't for it at
this time because man was not ready for
what was coming at him and quite
honestly even to this day without a
knowledge of God you are not ready for
what's coming at you young people young
people just now discovering what good
and evil is if you don't have a
knowledge of God you're not ready for
that what's coming at you but but how
how can we really know good or be good
while we are taught over and over again
that we are not
good how can we be good that's a good
question Psalm 14:3 says the fool has
said in his heart there is no God there
they are corrupt they have done
abominable things and there is none who
does good so in light of that how do you
do it well Matthew listen to this
statement you can read it above it says
Now Behold one came and said to him good
teach
what good thing shall I do that I may
have eternal life so he said to him why
do you call me good no one is good but
one that is God keep the
Commandments or Galatians 5 and verse 22
though obviously we've been reading this
it says the fruit of the spirit is love
joy peace longsuffering kindness and
goodness so apparently there is a way
for us to have good goodness that we can
be a good man a good woman it is
possible the fruit of the spirit is not
that I am good good it's not I am love
or I am Joy or I am peace or I am
kindness or I am good rather it's that I
have been influenced and God has poured
into me love and joy joy and peace and
patience and kindness and goodness so
goodness is poured into me not that I am
good God is
good but I can have goodness poured into
me and by his goodness being poured into
me I can become a good person it is not
that I am good of myself though rather
it is this gift that God gives us and
that's an important distinction so a
good man can be known you can be a good
man you can be a good woman you can be
but it's not something you were born
with or that you're always good that's
not the case but it is a fruit caused by
God's spirit that we have goodness
Proverbs 14 14 a good man shall be
satisfied from above so literally a man
that becomes good God has been dealing
with him and God is pouring his goodness
into him in Matthew 7 verse 5 well verse
15 says beware of false prophets who
come to you in sheep's clothing but
inwardly they are ravenous wolves verse
16 says you will know them by their
fruits do men gather grapes from Thorn
bushes or figs from thistles and then 17
that you you can read up there even so
every good tree that is you potentially
Bears good fruit that's you and what you
do but a bad tree that's a person can
choose to let the bad rule a bad tree
Bears Bad fruit a good tree that's you
cannot bear bad fruit okay nor can a bad
tree bear good fruit every tree that
does not bear good fruit is cut down and
thrown to the fire verse 20 by their
fruits you will know them and What's
happen how did that fruit come out of
you God had an influence on you his
spirit so by the fruit of the spirit we
want to look at three ways a good man a
good woman shows forth goodness okay so
here we go number
one by the fruit of the spirit a good
man or a good woman
shows forth A Heart full of
goodness so the first place that we see
God's influence is in your heart Matthew
12:35 a good man out of the good
treasure now treasure is not a thing
you're born with treasure is something
you find you earn you develop it's
poured into you right a good man out of
the good Treasure of his heart brings
forth good things and an evil man out of
the evil treasure brings forth evil
things so it's a
heart that is full of goodness and when
is that the case when it is full of
God's ways and hears God's words and
applies what God saying to us God's
power gives us goodness that's the
message of Romans 5 verse5 that the love
of God is poured out into our hearts
that's what happens God influences our
hearts and so our heart becomes good
because then we have a treasure of
goodness in our hearts you got that
through the Bible reading the Bible
praying asking God to fill you that's
when it happened Luke 8:15 but but the
ones that fell on the good ground are
those who have heard the word with a
noble and good heart kept it and bore
fruit with patience so literally God has
influen you if you're a good man today
you didn't get there on your
own if you're a good woman today you did
not get there on your own and if you
think you did you're not a good
person goodness has been poured into you
and it is a fruit of the
spirit and it flows into your heart but
by the fruit of the spirit a good man
can show forth A Heart full of goodness
but it also can show a spirit full of
goodness this a little different thing
let me give you an example it's acts 11
beginning at verse 22 then news of these
things came to the ears of the church in
Jerusalem and they sent out Barnabas to
go as far as Antioch because he heard of
all the good that was happening in
Antioch verse 23 when he came and had
seen the grace of God he would that how
there had been so many coming to Jesus
and encouraged them all that with
purpose of the heart they should
continue with the Lord verse 24 which is
up there for he was a good man full of
the Holy Spirit and of faith and a great
many people were added to the Lord now
listen to this he was a good man how did
he become a good
man he was just a good man all of his
life no it spells it out he's full of
the Holy Spirit and Faith so if you want
to be a good person you need to have the
right Spirit without the right Spirit
you are not a good person do not assume
by sitting in a church building you have
the right
Spirit don't assume that because your
mama and daddy were decent people that
you're a good person it isn't
inherited I don't care how good your mom
and daddy were it doesn't mean you
are it comes through the spirit of God a
spirit is full of goodness when it's
full of the Walk of the Holy Spirit
Ephesians 5 verse 9 says the fruit of
the spirit is in all all goodness where
do we see the fruit of the spirit in all
goodness in righteousness and Truth we
can see it you say well how do you know
I have the Holy Spirit we can see it and
if you're as nasty as you could possibly
be we see that
too okay we know when goodness is
present amen we know when goodness is
present Galatians 5:4 if we live in the
spirit let us also walk in the spirit
amen there is a walk there is a behavior
of a good person so there is the spirit
about a good person and that's the
person who the Holy Spirit has
influenced so by the spirit a good man
can show forth a spirit of goodness so
you can be a good man have a good heart
and have a good spirit and then by the
fruit of the spirit a good man can show
forth a
friend full of
goodness Romans
5:7 for scarcely for a righteous man
would one
die you might die for a really really
righteous person yet Perhaps for a good
man you mean there are good men
yeah yet for perhaps for a good man
someone would even Dare To Die
but God committed his love toward us and
that while we're yet sinners Christ died
for us here's the thing that's true what
he did but now we're flipping this on
its head a little bit a friend is full
of goodness when he has a good friend
that's full of goodness and that friend
is the Son of God and what I'm trying to
suggest to you here
is that is simple
he's our friend and it's Our obligation
to introduce our good friend and if you
are a good person you want to introduce
your friend Romans I mean John 15: 12-4
it says this this is my commandment that
you love one another as I have loved you
greater love has no one than this than
to lay down one's life for his friends
you are my friend
if you do whatever I
command and we're told in James 2: 23
that Abraham was called a friend of God
a friend of God in 1 Corinthians
15:33 it says evil
companions corrupt good
morals if that's true what does a good
companion
do if my
friend is
Jesus I can be
good that's what I'm trying to suggest
not only does it come poured into your
heart into your spirit but when you have
a friend that's full of goodness it
gives you goodness so goodness is by the
fruit of the spirit A Good Man shows
forth A Heart full of goodness
a spirit full of goodness and we should
be showing to the world around us our
friend that's full of goodness that's
made us good yet with all this
goodness our goodness our goodness it's
not enough to save
us can't do it salvation is imputed
righteousness I am righteous not because
I'm righteous I am righteous because
it's been imp imputed to
me I'm saved by grace through faith
because it is a gift and that's all the
way back to Genesis chapter 15 when you
believe God and God imputed that as
righteousness that argument is made
again all the way in Romans chapter 4
too many believe they have to be good
enough to go to heaven now that in and
of itself would probably do very little
harm if that were all there was involved
in that but when you start thinking you
have to be good enough to go to heaven
uh it creates another
problem it may lead to what we call
self-righteousness and those are
self-righteous
deceptions because if you've listened to
this whole lesson you know there's no
such thing as
self-righteousness
to walk in it absolutely a good heart
will want to do good things a good
spirit will want to do good things and a
good friend will make you want to share
Jesus goodness with the world that's all
true but you know there's a
problem
when man just simply won't receive the
goodness that God's
offering our goodness therefore will not
do it we can't get there by our goodness
it has to be a
gift but you have to receive
it long time ago a young man shot and
killed a man while he was
gambling back in those days no matter
what you reason
almost that would be considered murder
and murders back then were always
hung
that's the world we live in that's
United States of America before it was
United States of America when it was
territories back in the day when people
are wild and it's called the wild
west you were
hung but the town's people saw that this
was a very young man and they thought it
was just to hang him and he's so young
that just seemed too
strict and so they asked the judge to
Pardon The Young
fell
the judge agreed he said you know you
make a good argument he's
young not much more than a teenager
doesn't really know what the world is
about yet to just hang him now seemed
very
severe he said but if I'm going to do
this if I'm going to Pardon him I'm
going to do it my way only one way will
do I'm going to dress up like a preacher
I'm going to put the robe on I'm put the
collar on I'm going to have my Bible and
then I'm going to put the pardon right
inside my Bible and I'm going to hand in
the Bible and I'm going to give him his
pardon in that
context everybody thought that seemed
fair so he went into the jail and as he
approached the boy's cell the young man
began to curse and to swear get out of
here preacher I don't want you have I
don't want any anything you have to
offer the judge pretending to be a
preacher said but son you don't
understand he said I understand fine I
don't want what you have to
offer so the dejected judge dressed like
a preacher to
laugh later the guard told the young man
what had just happened see he didn't
know he didn't didn't know he'd been
pardoned he didn't know
anything and on the day of execution
when it arrived because he was to be
executed his pardon was taken out with
the
judge they asked the young man do you
have any words before we put the black
thing over your head and we hang
you and the young men said
yeah I am dying today now not because I
killed a man I'm dying today because I
rejected the
pardon folks it's not as much your sin
we've all sinned since the garden oh we
mess up all the time I mean I think I
kind of proved that it's not as much
your sin that's condemning you that's
putting you in the mess you may be in as
it is the rejection of the offer of
Pardon that right there within your
grasp it's not as much that you are not
good as it is the rejection of the
goodness he wants to give
you you must receive his goodness he
will give you his goodness and then you
will be a good man a good woman but
God's got to give that to you a man can
have a good heart a good spirit with his
good friend all the time
he forgives he pardons he gives us the
fruit of goodness and so here's the
question will you receive the pardon or
is it those crazy
preachers that's the
problem is it this
environment a you can't really believe
that at a church I could find
God or that I could be pardoned by
something that's
intangible
yeah it's up to you whether or not you
receive it I have the pardon in my
hand will you receive it if you will
repent of your sins confess the name of
Christ be baptized you receive that
today if you need to come back we'd love
to welcome you back God bless you you
make a good choice while we stand and
while we
sing
