now patiently
waiting is not
easy especially when you're waiting on
someone else one thing waiting on your
opportunity but Warden walked in and ask
an inmate on death row what he wanted
for his last meal and they pretty well
try to give you exactly what you want
the inmate said well Warden I would like
to have a huge piece of watermelon or
maybe even a whole
watermelon and the warden said well you
must be kidding this is December and
watermelons have not been planted little
less
harvested and inmate said that's okay I
don't mind
waiting the fruit of the spirit in my
Bible often says is longsuffering the
other word is patient and so the fruit
of the spirit is patience or
longsuffering and it is again as we
mentioned this morning uh the text is
very clear where're to walk in it if you
continue reading yeah it says in verse
22 the fruit of the spirit is love joy
peace longsuffering or patience but 25
again if we live in the spirit let us
also walk in the spirit again it is both
a gift and and it is a choice and the
primary meaning in our text of
longsuffering or uh it the Greek word
basically means long passion it's kind
of like those two words put together or
long anger literally if you translate it
exactly and therefore it means to
persevere to delay a long time to
patiently wait or to wait expect ly so
it has more meanings in the way it's
been used than you might expect the gift
traits and chosen
qualities uh
accompany U patients are important uh
tonight I'd like if you're going to turn
we're not going to be looking at
Galatians 5 I'd encourage you to turn to
James chapter 5 and there we're going to
look at about four Concepts and from
James 5: 7- 11 so there are four
Concepts we're going to look at them a
couple of different ways and then the
lesson will be over uh if you look there
what you will find is the idea of
patiently waiting which is what I just
mentioned a moment ago but it's like
waiting on rain as a farmer has to wait
on rain or as we wait on Jesus to return
that's takes patience to do that and
still stay faithful so it includes that
idea
patiently exonerating others that is the
idea of not grumbling not judging not
condemning our fellow Servants of the
Lord and also patiently
suffering which is the idea uh facing
troubles such as mocking or persecution
and still trying to speak the truth
still trying to do what's right and then
there's patiently enduring
which is the idea of a blessed
expectancy so you're expecting something
good but you're staying behind and not
getting it yet so it carries all of
those meanings we going to look at those
uh and see four examples in James 5: 7-
11 that I think would be beneficial to
us and so that's what we're going to try
to do and keep in mind it's a gift and
it's a
choice so number one patience is a
planter who plants before the early and
the latter Reigns and it says in James
5:7 therefore be patient Brethren until
the coming of the Lord so it's
paralleling what a farmer does with the
coming of the Lord see how the farmer
waits for the precious fruit of the
earth waiting patiently for for it until
it receives the early and latter rain so
now what we're talking about is this
gifted patience that we're talking about
handles fairly well we handle waiting
for the early rain fairly well but the
latter rain is a hard choice for us all
and as a
result
unbelief crops
in see because the unbelief or the
unbeliever never quite made it to the
latter
rain it's fine for a little
while anybody can wait a little while
but that latter rain is
late and it feels like it's not going to
come and there's been a many of
so-called faithful
Christians who've left the faith because
they could not wait for the latter Reign
the latter blessing that they thought
that God owed to
them we're to patiently wait like
Galatians 6 and ver9 says let us not
grow weary while doing good for in due
season we shall reap if we do not lose
heart but if you know this seasons are
three
months it's wow so you can have early
rain and not make it to the latter rain
your plants begin to die you think I'm
not going to make it and there's been a
many a Christian because they didn't get
what they thought God owed them when God
should have given it to
them they lost their faith patience is
planting before the early and the latter
rain and making it to
it number two patience is a proponent
that is those of us like us a disciple
who prepares before the Advent of
Christ and the anger that we're going to
face reverently and you may be sitting
there what are you talking about about
the
anger the anger between
us you know it's about time that you
actually
admitted you've probably been angry with
a few members definitely been angry with
people in this
world gifted patience handles say
waiting for the Advent of
Christ but anger with your brethren is a
hard
Choice how many have I known who've quit
the church because they got
mad y'all know any bet you
do just got mad at somebody that's
Christianity I'm gone which of course
they gave you a real good example of
what Christianity is not by
quitting patiently exonerating is what
I'm suggesting here so we need to not
only learn to wait on the Advent of
Christ and that's later than the
disciples in the New Testament thought
it would be isn't it they acted like it
was any moment didn't they you know why
because it could have been cuz nobody
had told them the Lord didn't tell us
when it was going to happen because the
Lord did not know when it was going to
happen he makes it very clear he didn't
know
so he couldn't predict it so everybody
reads the Bible to predict the end of
the world you can't predict the end of
the world if the Lord himself didn't
know when the end of the world was only
the Father Knows patiently exonerating
James 4:1 do not speak evil of one
another Brethren he who speaks evil of a
brother and judges his brother speaks
evil of the law and judges the law if
you judge the law you're not a doer of
the law but a judge so unbelief or
unbelievers who once were one of us
never made it to the Advent of Christ
never made it until the Lord came back
because
anger judging their brother murmuring
drove them away so the next time you
find yourself
grumbling remember your brethren you're
talking about and you're thinking about
and patience is
literally preparing beforehand for the
Advent and you should be preparing
yourself now for the anger that one of
your brothers and sisters are going to
make you feel and if you don't think
that's going to happen you're being
childish because it's going to
happen you're going to get miffed with
somebody you go to church with or
they're going to get miffed at you how
are you going to handle
it number next
patience is a prophet who proclaims
before the
promises and before the persecutions are
revealed look at verses 10 and 11 my
brethren take the prophets to spoke in
the name of the Lord as an example of
suffering and patience so both
things indeed we count them blessed who
endure endure what the sufferings and
having to wait
see they were told things that you see
that you know about that they never got
to see they received many promises that
they never saw the fruit
of but not only did they do that but
they endured much suffering who who'
they endure suffering
from they suffered from the hands of
their
Brethren and you need to understand that
that's the primary source source of all
persecution I'm not saying that the
world did not make the New Testament
Christian suffer but it was
predominantly the Jewish people that
made them suffer and it was
predominantly the Jews that made each
other
suffer so gifted patience can handle
maybe the promises one day God's going
to do this one day God's going to do
that but here's the problem is handling
the Suffering The persecution that's a
hard Choice again it's a gift to receive
patience but to actually apply it when
someone's angry with you and hurting you
hurting your feelings that's a different
thing patiently suffering Matthew 5:10
puts it this way blessed are those who
are persecuted for righteousness sake
for theirs is the kingdom of heaven and
if you haven't listen to me you're not
going to like what I'm fixed to say none
of you probably if you have not had had
your feelings hurt oh you are likely the
mean
one and you've been stepping on
others told you wouldn't like that
unbelief never made it to the
promises because of the persecution that
killed their faith so patience is
proclaiming before the promises what
what's coming and then it's also
enduring the persecutions that would
come that's the story of the
prophets remember next patience is a
patriarch patriarch who
perseveres before the wealth returns and
before his health returns that's the
story of job and these are the four
examples that are used in this text in
James 5:1 says is you have heard the
perseverance of job and seen the end
intended by the Lord that the Lord is
very compassionate and merciful now why
did he use the word intended by the Lord
because some never make it
there they never get to the Second
Blessing they never last God will give
you double uh for all the trouble that
you're going to have to go through but
but you got to make it there unbelief
never made it to either double wealth or
double
Health it also causes them to give up
what they do believe because I've lost
my health I've lost my wealth a God that
would let me be in this circumstance I
don't want to serve I don't want to live
for a God that would allow me to be
unhealthy I would not want to serve a
God who would dare let me lose lose some
of my
wealth and you may think that that's not
what people do but gifted patience
handles maybe lost
wealth maybe but you lose your health
that's a hard
choice if you could potentially die from
something it changes your attitude if
you've been on the verge of dying it
affects
you yeah pretty seriously so patiently
enduring is what we're discussing here
and since we're talking about job let's
look at what job had to say on that
point in job 42:10 it says the Lord
restored job's losses when did that
happen when he prayed for his friends so
he had to forgive his
friends indeed the lord gave job twice
as much as he had before so here's what
what tends to happen is when you lose
your wealth or you lose your health or
you lose both is that you want your
friends to tell you what you want to
hear and more often than not they
don't at least one it won't and that
includes us we won't tell you what you
want to hear because there's nothing I
could possibly tell you if your mother
died or your daddy died or your brother
died or your sister died or your child
died there's nothing I can tell you that
will fix
that or suddenly make the at all the
pain go away it's just not going to be
like that so if I say anything at all
and you're as tender at that moment as
you probably will be you'll interpret it
wrongly because you're mad because you
hadn't got what you want from the
Lord patience is persever ing before the
wealth or before the health ever returns
and by the way the wealth and the health
may not return in this life it may be in
the next
world that may be the way it
is so this is what we've looked at so
patience are is patiently waiting and
that's patience is
planting before the early and before the
latter rain so you got to wait on the
early range you got to wait on the
latter rains
hard thing you got to make some choices
patiently exonerating is patience is
preparing before the Advent of the Lord
and being ready and before the anger and
you do both reverently and you treat
them the people that you're around still
beautifully patiently suffering is
patience in proclaiming before the
promise and persecution is revealed you
know it's easy to Proclaim good news as
long as somebody ain't sassin you for
what you
said it's hard to make that choice and
patiently enduring patience is
persevering before the wealth before the
health
returns and we're all going to face
pretty much everything I've talked about
tonight you may not have realized it but
pretty much everything I just talked
about is something you're going to have
to deal with so patience is often hard
for us because we're in a hurry and God
is not he's not governed by time he's
governed by what's in your best
interest we are worried about the
time well I I I need to get this back
before I get too
old before this happens before that
happens it's fomo right fear missing out
I'm scared I don't want to miss out
totally and we have a hard time being
patient even with God there's a song
that my wife taught our kids some of you
probably know this song I'm not going to
sing it probably but well maybe I should
if you know it it goes have
patience have patience don't be in such
a hurry if you get impatient you always
start to worry
remember remember that God is patient
to and think of all the times when
others had to wait on
you
yeah have
patience and we have a problem with God
not giving us what we want when we want
it I prayed about it I trusted him
where's he
at but included in that not only do we
have to make a hard choice and Trust
anyway when it comes to God patience and
spiritual patience even though it's a
gift of the spirit still a hard Choice
when we have and I think maybe it's a
much
harder uh time being patient with our
fellow man specifically our
Brethren because we don't deal a lot
with them out there I mean unless you're
you're talking about work you have a
trough time there
but that doesn't make you want to quit
the Lord you have a bad boss generally
you don't quit the Lord over that but if
you have a brother who speaks to you
harshly you might quit the Lord over
that I love this
story it's an old traditional Jewish
story you may never heard of it before
but I think I should tell it it's it's
Jewish and so I don't know if I'll put
it up there oh there it is I mean I'll
tell you the story if you want to read
it you can it was a cold night and
Abraham was sitting at the door of his
tent this is what the Jews tell it's not
it's not in your Bible so don't go
looking for it if you go back to gen
you're not going to find it in Genesis
so Abraham sitting in the doorway of his
tent and he sees just before it's dark
it's been a cold day and he looks across
there and he sees this old guy older
than him old guy coming and you can tell
he's been traveling and he looks
exhausted and on his way up to the tent
Abraham thinks because Abraham is a
hospitable guy I'm going to take care of
this guy so he jumps up and he runs to
the guy and he says come come come into
my tent and I'll prepare you some food
and something to drink and so he does he
brings the old guy into his tent where
it's warm it's not cold outside and so
he fixes him a a really nice meal
because Abraham was well to do he fixes
him a nice meal gets him a nice drink
and he sets it before him and the old
man is appreciative to a degree and he
sits down and he starts eating and
Abraham looks at him and says uh so you
don't pray he said no he said well don't
you believe in God he said I believe in
the fire god that I sitting before me I
like that fire and no I I don't believe
that there is a God and I don't worship
any God other than fire to keep me warm
and Abra said Abraham said really and he
picked him up by his shoulders and he
saidou not eat in my tent and he throws
him out in the night
air and after he goes God calls on his
friend says hey my friend
Abraham yes
Lord where's that old guy that old man
it was a traveler you invited in where
is he he said oh Lord that man didn't
respect you he didn't worship you I
brought him in I was deceived I thought
surely an old man like that would
worship you but no and I kicked him out
he went on his way I don't know where
he's at he
said yeah I knew all that I endured him
80
years and you couldn't endure during one
night
patience patience is from the
Lord and like all our gifts such as
salvation it is gift a needed
gift a gift that we would not have if it
was not for him imagine the world
without the Lord how much patience there
would not
be
yet it's still a
choice you still have to choose to be
patient even though it's a gift you've
been shown how to do it we just saw
examples of how to do it and what we're
expected to do but patience is still a
choice as to whether or not you'll take
advantage of it it's up to
you whether you're in traffic and you
choose to be patient or you choose to be
angry whether you at work and you choose
be patient or you choose to be angry
whether you're with your family and you
choose to be patient or you choose to be
angry or whether you're at church and
you choose to be patient or you choose
to be
angry it is a gift but you have to
accept it you have to choose patience
toward God that's right you have to
choose to be patient with
God
some aren't and they
quit you have to choose to be patient
with
man some
aren't and they quit the
church except the gift of Salvation
that's wonderful it's a gift you know
even the gift of Salvation you got to
choose to accept it don't
you is it yours just because it's a gift
if you don't take the
gift what good is it to you
you got to still
believe Jesus repent of your sins
confess the name of Christ be baptized
go to church live for the Lord you still
got to do that
right you got to receive it you got to
choose to receive it not just say well
God di Jesus died for everybody yeah but
what are you doing right right same
thing with patience it's
gift you got to choose to receive it are
you going to choose to receive it with
God and be patient with him and then are
you going to be patient with your
brethren that's the message tonight if
you need to come invitation is available
to you always but if you want to come
right now come why we stand while we
sing
