I remember when uh I was really small I
must have been about four or five
actually went to work with my dad one
day and he found a circus along the side
of the road and back in the day there
weren't the rules there are now so there
was a lion cage I don't know three or
four lions in there and I was probably
about four or five I don't know it was
before school and there's three or four
lions in the cage and one of them's tail
was sticking out the
bars I don't know if a lion could reach
through the bars but those bars are
about that far apart but he said go over
there and pull that Lion's
Tail I did pull the Li's ta I don't know
if I'd do that today see lions are scary
aren't they a little bit scary um but
you know some dogs are about as scary as
lions have you noticed I've been about
as scared of dogs uh the redian
ridgeback my wife comes from redia
Zimbabwe and uh redian R Ridgeback dog
uh was bred to hunt pursue lions for
lion hunting they're pretty tough dogs
uh a lost dog you know strayed into the
jungle um this is a reported true story
a a lost dog strayed into a jungle and
he sees a lion at a
distance and the lion sees him at a
distance and the lion says to himself
I'm telling you it's reportedly a true
story The Lion said to himself this guy
looks edible but I've never seen this
kind before so the lion starts moving
quickly toward where the dog is and but
the dog notices again this is reportedly
true story the dog notices starts to
panic but about the time he's about to
run as hard as he can he sees some bones
laying on the ground next to him and he
gets this great idea and he says loudly
M that was some good lion meat I just
ate and the lion abruptly stops this is
reportedly a true story and the lion
abruptly stops and he says out loud whoa
this guy seems tougher than he looks
maybe I better leave him alone and he
starts going the other
direction up in the trees above them
there's a monkey watching this whole
thing this is reportedly true story this
monkey is up there and he sees the whole
thing working out he knows what's
happening and evidently the monkey
realizes you know I think I can benefit
from this event so he jumps down before
the lion runs away and tells the lion
every everything that's happened and
that Lon says
oh so he says jump on my back and we'll
go get him together so they tuck off
running after the dog and the dog sees
all this sees the monkey on his back a
lion running at you with a monkey on his
back understands everything that's just
happened he's a smart dog this is a
reportedly true story this instead of
panicking he gets another great idea and
he says really loud where is that lion
Monkey I told him to bring me another
line about an hour
ago I think the story that's really true
is that we're all scared of lions even
the animals out there they're terrified
of them lions are scary and the devil is
said to be like a lion now that's not me
1 Peter 5 and ver8 says Beast
sober be vigilant because your adversary
the devil walks about like a roaring
Ling seeking whom he may
devour now the righteous are supposed to
be like
lions Proverbs 28:1 says the righteous
are as bold as a
lion that's what you're supposed to be
like and then Proverbs 30:30 says a lion
does not turn away from any Lions don't
run you face them they tend to face you
off you want to face a lion he's
coming now we have a bunch of examples
of really good righteous men who faced
off with a lion because they were as
bold as a lion David in 1st Samuel 17 36
he says your servant hath killed both
lion and a bear you understand the right
are as bold as a lion and they don't
turn away from
many bah in 1st Chronicles 11:22 says a
v he was a valiant man and he'd gone
down and killed a lion in the midst of a
pit on a snowy day yeah a lion doesn't
turn away from any and that includes the
righteous
lion he will go down into that
pit and then Daniel of course we know
the story of Daniel in the lions in
Hebrews 11:33 puts it this way through
faith they stopped the mouths of lions
he faced Lions Paul were told in 1
Corinthians 15:32 he says I have fought
with beasts in
Ephesus you got to be as bold as a lion
to face a lion folks
um lions are
scary and the devil is like a lion and
let me tell you the lazy can't handle a
lion Proverbs 22:13 says there is a lion
outside and it'll kill me so he doesn't
go outside do go to work he's just lazy
a lot of lazy people oh there's there's
a lion that'll get me I'm not going
anywhere there are people who don't get
involved in church because the lion will
get
me the disobedient are the same way 2
Kings 17:25 dealing with the Assyrians
he says they did not fear the lord the
Assyrians did not fear the lord
therefore the Lord sent Lions among them
which kills some of them they're just
disobedient they didn't fear the lord
and so God sent a lion to meet them see
roaring lines what's the point of that
statement in Peter roaring lines are
scary and the Devil is a roaring Line 1
Peter 5 and verse 8 says it specifically
that Lions Roar
and I went back the wrong way there we
go Lions Roar why are lions Roar what
lions don't do is Lions do not Roar when
they're going after a
gazelle they don't do that that would
got to be pointless it would run and
they can run faster so Lions don't go
after the weak and Roar at
them so now that there's another message
to you and I see Lions have another
purpose they're dealing with lions when
they
Roar do you understand now what the
devil is doing when he
Roars he's dealing with
you you're the lion he's got to deal
with you see so why does he Roar well he
Roars for several reasons a lion roars
for one thing he's declaring his
territory this this is my pride area
he's trying to involve you in the idea
that you're at war with me if you're in
my area he wants to scare off any
contenders if you're a lion in my area I
want you to get out of here unless you
want to fight he wants to threaten any
Wanderers who may have just wandered
into his territory he wants to also
prepare himself because when you roar it
kind of helps you gain a little little
courage and you'll see that even men in
battle they'll almost Roar to give them
themselves a little more courage he
wants to announce the
battle so it's not he's
running he's letting you know he's
coming or a lion so he wants to also do
another thing that we don't hear much
about he wants to encourage Alliance
because often a lion will not attack
another lion by himself he just won't do
it he'll get a buddy he creates an
alliance why because two against once a
lot more likely going to win so what I
want to tell you is the devil rarely
attacks You by himself he gets an
alliance and he brings another lion with
you with him to attack you because they
can come at you with Superior forces to
attack you when you're alone to attack
you and bite you from the back because
lion don't like to face face they want
to buy at the back CU they don't break
your back they buy through it break your
back to attack you without any Mercy
whatsoever so if you think the devil
gives you any quarter and has any sense
of Mercy for you you are mistaken he has
no sense of Mercy for your pain none
zero he would like to take you out now
so if you've seen two male lions
fighting or roaring at each other now
you know
honestly the
violence and the hatred the devil feels
toward you so why should you be shocked
when bad things happen to
you you should be shocked if they don't
ever
happen so from this story I want to show
you just some teaching that I think some
of us have missed it's a a little
difficult to swallow maybe if you've
never studied this but it is absolutely
true and you need to get it the first
lesson that I hit on a minute ago is
this out of his
predestination with the lion comes his
argument what are you talking about his
predestination well first you need to
understand that Samson was predestined
to do what he
did okay he was virtually created for
this
God told you know he's going to be born
and he's going to do this he's going to
act as a deliverer if you don't believe
that go to judges
13:5 that was the reason he was born but
let me pick up at the last verse of
Judges 20 uh 13 it says and the spirit
of the Lord began to move upon him and
mana and Dan between Zoar and estall now
so it just began to happen that he began
to do some things we don't know what
those things were
but the spirit of God was working on him
already verse one so the spirit of God
was in Samson to do what Samson did that
might surprise some people because
everybody sees God as reacting doc
toward the work of the devil but look at
verse one now we in verse one says now
Samson went down to timna and saw this
woman you got that part he wants to
marry her verse four is critical but his
father and mother did not know that it
was of the Lord that he was seeking an
occasion to move against the Philistines
and the Philistines had dominion over
them it's a critical
concept
God was seeking an
occasion he was looking for an
argument you see there's a
predestined
argument of God and he uses the riddle
as this predestined argument with the
devil what do I mean by riddle well in
our case the riddle is the mystery of
the
Cross and he has sought an argument with
the Lord he sees that the world is
against what's right he has used the
cross itself and the Mystery of how the
cross provided salvation and pardon for
the entire world and the devil cannot
conf front it he cannot deal with the
argument he can try to get you to not
think about it but he cannot deflect it
he cannot stop the argument the argument
is an unbeatable argument so God sought
an argument and he did he's done this so
many times and we don't tend to think of
God doing this but he's done it so many
times in so many ways it'll become more
and more prayer and as you start
thinking about it in Exodus
7:3 God says I will Harden Pharaoh's
heart and multiply my signs in the land
of Egypt why did he Harden his heart
because he wanted to multiply his signs
why did he Harden his heart because he
wanted to bring the argument and the
conflict to a higher level he wants
everybody to see this conflict in Exodus
9 verse 16 by the way he could have had
a pharaoh he could have put anybody in
there he wanted he could have put a a
flower in there and they would have yeah
whatever you want y'all leave whenever
you want but he didn't want that in
Exodus 9:1 16 it says for this purpose I
have raised you up talking to Pharaoh I
put you where you are for this purpose
that I may show my power in you right
and that my name may be declared in all
the Earth God sought an
argument he could have done it
differently he sought an argument
and God sought a debate and we see this
in another place in Romans chapter 9:
22- 23 what if God wanted to show his
wrath and to make his power known
endured with Longs suffering the vessels
of Wrath prepared for Destruction verse
23 and that he might make known The
Riches of his glory on his vessels of
Mercy which he hath prepared beforehand
for Glory so literally he wanted you to
see the greatness of his mystery that
he's prepared he wants to show them his
power and deal with them in a ferocious
way in Revelation 13 verse 8 Jesus was
slain from the foundation of the world
it was taught but it was still a mystery
to everybody nobody got it and now we
have it he sought a debate and then God
sought a
disagreement God sought a disagreement
in Matthew Chap 10: 34-37 and I know
everybody thinks oh know God's all about
peace and there's no disagreements here
not when it comes to the devil my friend
that's not the case at all listen to
what it says Matthew 10:34 it says do
not think that I came to bring peace on
Earth Jesus did not come to bring peace
on this
planet I did not come to bring peace but
a
sword
for I came to set a man against his
father some of you know about this some
of you don't know about this because you
wouldn't argue with anybody about
anything ever you would never disagree
with anybody because you think that's
what a Christian's called to do to get
along with everybody and say what
everybody says and keep everybody happy
and never disagree with anybody about
anything biblical or anything listen to
me I have come to set a man against his
father a daughter against her mother a
daughter-in-law against her
mother-in-law and a Man's enemies will
be those of his own household now listen
to what he says after that he who loves
father or mother or anybody you want to
put in that list more than me is not
worthy of me if you love peace at home
over doctrinal matters more than you
love the word of God you've already let
the devil win the Lion's got you he's
already got you so he predestined you
may not like that terminology but it
certainly fits in Samson and therefore
because the mystery was so long ago
before the foundation of the world
you've been predestined to engage in an
argument with the devil because the Lord
has sold an argument with the
lion number
two out of his confrontation with the
lion talking about Samson
again comes his empowerment look at
verses
five and six and seven but we'll just
focus mainly up there I think I've only
got verse six let me read verse 5 so you
catch the gist so Samson went down to
timna with his father and mother and
came to The Vineyards of timna now to
his surprise so Samson did not know what
he was going to be predestined to do in
this situation but he knew that God was
leading him to accomplish some great
thing to his surprise a young lion
roared now Young Lion does have the big
man he's got the smaller
man to his surprise a young lion came
roaring against him verse six and the
spirit of the Lord came mightily upon
him and he tore the lion apart as one
would have torn apart a young goat that
though he has nothing in his hand I
don't know how many of you know anything
about little young little brand new
animals you can crush them with your
hands you can rip them apart
you really can it's not it doesn't take
a he-man to do this and he but he did it
like it was nothing to him but he did
not tell his father or his mother what
he had done then he went down and talked
with the woman and she pleased Samson
well there is a confrontational
empowerment of God's
spirit and this is is critical and a
really good example of where you see
this is the Book of Job The Book of Job
proves that the Lord seeks confrontation
with the
devil if you don't believe it just take
a look at it have you considered my
servant job he seeks it he lays it out
there that his Spirit would and think
about this this is his holy spirit that
his holy spirit would
confront in Matthew chapter 10 verses
18- 22 you will be brought before
Governors and Kings for my sake sake as
a testimony to them and to the Gentiles
he's talking to them but he's also
talking to us for a testimony against
them verse 19 but when they deliver you
up do not worry about how or what you
should speak for it will be given you in
that hour what you should speak so this
is the Holy Spirit the Lord God putting
you in a cir circumstance or these
people at least in a circumstance where
they were going to have oppos from the
very
government and the Holy Spirit was going
to inspire them basically to say
whatever they were going to say to
answer and and deal with them he would
they would be empowered to give great
answers verse 20 for it is not you who
speaks but the spirit of your father who
speaks in you now brother will deliver
listen to what's right in that same
context this is actually surprising now
brother will deliver up brother to death
that means family members will not be
your friends sometimes and a father is
child and a children will rise up
against parents and cause them to be put
to death and you will be hated he talks
about virtually the whole world so what
I'm suggesting to you is here is that
the spirit would confront it wants to
confront the works of Satan in fact
think about it just a second why do you
think there's a war within you why do
you think you struggle to do the right
thing have you never thought about it
God's spirit's within you what is that
struggle going on inside of you the
spirit wants to confront
it if you have the spirit and that
Spirit would resist in Acts chapter 6:
8-10 it says this and Steven full of
faith and power did great wonders and
signs among the people then there arose
some from what is called the synagogue
of the freed men disputing with stepen
so apparently the devil wants it
too he seeks an argument verse 10 and
they were not able to resist the wisdom
in the spirit by which he
spoke you're in a war you just didn't
know it maybe you didn't know it that
his Spirit would not only resist but his
Spirit would want to reveal some stuff
Colossians 4: 3-6 says this praying also
for us
that God would open to us a door for the
word to speak the mystery of Christ
remember that hidden Mystery from the
beginning of the world about the cross
for which I am also in Chains why would
he be in Chains you know everything will
work out for you right if you're doing
the Lord's will right no one would ever
be against Christianity no one would
ever say that what we stand for was
wrong what was he in chains
for are you saying saying that there is
somebody in opposition to what we do
well if there's not we're not doing much
praying for us for which I am also in
change verse four that it may M that I
may make it manifest as I ought to speak
so I'm supposed to say stuff that is
controversial and you're supposed to say
things that are controversial to the
world
so he says that and then he says let
your speech always be with Grace so you
should be nice about it seasoned with
salt it's going to burn sometimes that
you may know how you ought to answer
each person because you never know
sometimes when a guy walks up to you
whether you should be gracious or you
should be a little salty right you don't
know until you deal with it based upon
their reaction and whether or not
they're a lion coming at you or not so
you need to understand
here now that went wrong oh there it is
I didn't realize I was already there
there is an oppositional nourishment of
God's honey folks I I I really need you
need to see this so not only does he he
basically gives the Holy Spirit empowers
you so if you're looking for the spirit
to move upon you if the spirit's going
to move move on you let me just put it
this way it's going to be in the
battle but out of opposition L you think
this is all a negative lesson listen to
this out of opposition comes
nourishment that's the story of the text
if you look at verses 8 and nine of
Judges 14 and I know this is hard to
follow some of this and after some time
when he returned to get her that is the
the woman he wanted to marry that he
didn't necess want but he sought an
occasion of an argument he turned aside
to see the carcass of the lion I guess
you'd have to go look what's happened to
it and behold a swarm of bees and honey
were in the carcass of the lion and he
took some of it in his hand went along
eating Honey's great folks it'll really
open your eyes when he came to his
father and mother he gave some to them
and they also ate so was nourishment for
him and his family but he did not tell
them that he had taken the honey out of
the carcass of the line he didn't say
that there is folks not
only
opposition but that opposition that we
Face
generates
nourishment you wonder why some people
never grow up in their spiritual
walk it's because they're never willing
to face opposition from a
lion you want to really
grow you you got to be willing to face
the
opposition it it's
essential there is an oppositional
nourishment of God's
honey any good food is a source of
nourishment and
power let me give you about three ideas
here that you need to think
on catching
fish is an oppositional struggle I don't
know if you know this fish don't want to
be
caught now apply that to talking to to
them about
Jesus you really understand that right
so when when people don't want to hear
you talk to them about Jesus should you
be
surprised fish don't want to be
caught but fish are a great food
source so when you catch fish you do get
nourishment out of it you picking up on
this in Matthew 4: 18 and 19 it says
this Jesus walking by the Sea of Galilee
saw two brothers Simon called Peter and
Andrew his brother and casting Nets into
the sea for they were fishermen then he
said to them follow me and I will make
you fish of do you know what that means
when you first start talking to them
they don't want any part of
it they don't want to be
caught they don't want to be sitting in
the church bill on on Sunday morning if
they're not s already sitting in a
church bill on they don't want
that they've got to learn do you hear me
and it's going to be oppositional but
when you get somebody listen to me you
actually teach somebody and they come in
here and they're baptized you will never
have as much nourishment in your life
then you'll get from that right
there that will nourish you and more
than that
harvesting is an oppositional struggle
so if we take it into another vein we
talk about it from a different
perspective we're not talking about
fishing now we're talking about
harvesting I don't know if you've ever
worked in a field but it ain't
fun have you been out in the field it's
not fun I even if you're driving a
tractor even if you're driving a tractor
that's got air conditioning and
stereo I've never ridden in one of those
but I even seen one but I've heard of
them it's not fun you're out there doing
nothing
just it's worse than mowing the
law harvesting is not fun but what you
get out of it is a great food food
source it feeds you John 4: 32-34 Jes
but he said to them Jesus said I have
found I have food to eat of which you do
not know therefore the disciples said to
one another has anyone brought him
anything to eat and Jesus said to them
my food is to do the will of him who
sent me when I do that I eat like you
never eaten before and to finish his
work verse 35 do you not say there are
all still four months then comes the
Harvest but I say to you lift up your
eyes look on the field for they are
already white for the Harvest man get
out there get to work but I don't want
to that's sweaty and there's thorns and
there's trouble and
yeah but you eat
good you're nourished by it and then
teaching Jesus is an oppositional
struggle for us and for those we teach
but Jesus is that food source my friend
John 6:27 do not labor for the food
which perishes but for the food which
endures to eternal life which the son of
man will give you because God the father
has sent his seal on
them his
word takes effort to learn it it takes
effort to teach it it can be difficult
talking about Jesus you got to learn
more about it but we're nourished by it
all so this is a lesson let's summarize
it here there is a predestined argument
that we're supposed to be a part
of God said it in motion you're supposed
to engage in this argument and it is the
argument of the mystery of the Cross
against the devil and by the way it'll
defeat him every time because once a
person understands what cross has done
it'll change his life right and there's
a confrontation but that conf ration
Empower we're empowered by the spirit to
engage in it so if you engage in it
you'll find that there's strength to do
it that you didn't think you had oh I
don't know enough I can't do enough I
don't know enough Bible just step in
you'll be surprised what God can do
through you and then there is opposition
from The Lion but that opposition leads
into nourishment for us there will be
honey at the end of that you know the
Lord could have already cast the devil
and his angels into the Lake of
Fire could have already done
that he didn't have to leave him out you
think it's a case if he do have the
strength to do it are you
serious he could have already done away
with well why we have all this trouble
because the devil's out there but why
didn't you just do away with him oh
there's so many smart
people know more than God it's amazing
how many people know more than God isn't
it heard one guy talk about God should
have put us if there really was a God he
should have put a zipper on us so that
we could reach in there and work on the
parts inside of us whenever we have a
problem and then we wouldn't have to
have surgery and the answer was can you
imagine a three-year-old with a zipper
and his stuff
so the Lord could have also prevented
the devil from going to the Garden of
Eden you think that would have you think
he didn't know where he was
have you thought through this idea the
Lord could have prevented the devil from
going after job the Lord could have
prevented the devil from going after
Jesus the Lord could have prevented the
devil from going after
you and yes he hates you and he is after
you and the Lord didn't stop
him
the
Lord sees things
differently the Lord sees there are
rewards that we get from facing our
Lions we don't like this part of the
story Maryanne rad matcher I think it's
way you say it says courage doesn't
always
Roar sometimes courage is the little
voice at the end of the day
it says I will try again tomorrow but
folks the Lord sees there are rewards
that we get from facing our
Lions George Herbert said storms make
trees take deeper root we don't like
storms but it forces us to be
stronger the Lord sees that there are
rewards that we get from facing our
Lions Napoleon Hill says the strongest
Oaks of the forest and not the ones that
protect are protected from the storms
and hidden from the sun it's the ones
that stand out in the open where it is
compelled to struggle for existence
against the winds and rains and the
scorching
sign see the Lord sees there are rewards
that we get from facing
Lions Douglas Malik he's a poet and I
got four verses I want you to see the
first verse says the the tree that never
had to fight for Sun and sky and air and
light that stood out in the open plain
and always got it share of rain never
became a forest King but lived and died
a scrubby
thing the man who never had to toil to
Heaven from the common soil who never
had to win his share of sun and sky and
light and air never became a manly man
but lived and died as he
began good Timber does not grow in ease
the stronger wind the tougher trees the
farther Sky the greater length the more
the storm the more the strength but sun
and Cold by rain and snow in trees are
men good Timber
Grows Where thickest stands the forest
growth we find the Patriarchs of both
and they hold converse with the Stars
whose broken branches show the scars of
many winds and much
Strife with the common law of
Life the Lord sees that there are
rewards from our facing our lies
so let's face our Lions
amen let's be as bold as a
lion let's do our job there is an
argument that we must make but there is
an empowerment that we will receive and
there is nourishment that will be ours
if you will be a part of the conflict if
you're here today and you want to begin
the conflict let me tell you you won't
be facing and the lion out there if you
repent of your sins confess the name of
Christ and you were to be baptized today
you know what you would find a conflict
immediately right in
here but we draw to the conflict amen if
you need to come come while we stand and
while we sing
