you know uh you know we kind of pick on
young people and and I don't mean that
I'm I'm telling you I think young people
are awesome I really do and I I think
young people kind of get the bad end of
the stick because our young people are
great it's some of the young people of
the world that uh aren't necessarily
living appropriately but teenagers can
often uh confuse being smart because
teenagers are smart I mean I don't want
to get into it with math with the
teenager today because for one thing
they've changed all the math it's
different than it was when I came up I
show you how to do long division and
that sort of thing but I don't know how
to do the stuff today uh so they're
smart they're well spoken uh and uh so
it they can think themselves absolutely
uh mature in every way uh and un
knowingly they may think that they're uh
just as mature as their parents or or
whoever in their life and not recognize
that maybe they're not quite as mature
as it may appear at first so a mature
and complete adult brain and I know this
doesn't sound nice but your brains are
not finished until somewhere between 22
and 25 that's the the word that's out so
that means the frontal lobe particularly
does not finish patterning until
somewhere between 22 and 25 females
closer to 22 males closer to 25 and
that's pretty much standard and that
means that women are a little bit
Advanced especially in the teenage years
Beyond especially emotionally developed
more than the young men and young men
tend to uh take a little time getting
there but you both end up at about the
same place uh the mature brain or the
mature mind tends to show some signs of
emotional maturity though that you might
not always see and a young teenager and
those of you are older probably
recognize some of these things let me
run down this list usually a mature mind
or mature brain has developed the
ability of delayed gratification and
sometimes that is not seen as often in
young people uh it also tends to take
responsibility for getting done whatever
needs to get done and uh it just feels
that responsibility it tends to care
about others and considers others needs
and
situations sometimes above their own now
I'm not saying that you don't see these
qualities from time to time in young
people I'm just saying that's what a
mature brain is and some young people
become mature earlier than others uh it
can uh a mature brain can self- cope and
that's an important thing to develop uh
it can self- cope as a form of what we
call
self-control over its own feelings not
just uh I don't know there's a lot of
stuff on the internet where people lose
it have y'all seen this kind of stuff
where you you know I mean literally I
don't know who they are it doesn't
matter how old they are they clearly
haven't developed maturity and
self-control the way they should uh it
also recognizes its actions and as
having consequences if you're mature you
tend to notice that you're aware of it
and uh so you're more aware of uh
consequences than just the consequences
for yourself too and it has the ability
to handle conflict to some degree calmly
I mean anybody can be pushed Beyond but
generally speaking a mature brain is
able to handle conflict calmly and
respectfully at least on the front end I
guess anybody can lose it but it also a
mature brain has the ability to maintain
a reasonable amount of humility and
tries not to vaunt itself it stumped its
toe enough times and been embarrassed
enough times having acted like it was
more mature than it was and in result
being embarrassed so we have some
builtin uh maturity from our immaturity
if you will and so you develop this uh
your brain develops this desire to learn
and to be taught things that may be out
of their depth rather than assuming
you're already there but that doesn't
mean that younger people don't sometimes
have greater spiritual and emotional
responsibility than even their parents
that does happen similarly many
Christians though have not developed and
are not as mature as they may sometimes
think they are and that's all of our
tendency if we're not careful uh
spiritual maturity is seen in what we
would call wisdom not in cleverness just
because you can be clever and
sharp-witted does not mean that you're
wise 1 Corinthians 2 verse6 says we
speak wisdom among those who are mature
yet not the wisdom of this age nor the
rulers of this age who are coming to
nothing so there is a mature wisdom
that's not about being cute and clever
uh spiritual maturity is also seen in
understanding not in maliciousness not
in being malicious or harmful or hateful
1 Corinthians 14:20 says do not be
children in understanding however in
Malice be babes but in understanding be
mature so we need to be very careful
that we don't become cleverly capable of
hurting people
feelings uh spiritual maturity is seen
in growing not in stubbornly maintaining
who and what we've been Philippians 3
and ver1 15 says let us as many as are
mature have this mind and if anything
you think otherwise God will reveal even
this to you so you don't need to be
stubborn about what you've been but you
need to be willing to make changes so
that's basically what I've just covered
for you without you reading it all while
I'm talking and then uh John Haywood an
English playwright said this long time
ago most of you uh know this saying Rome
wasn't built in a day but they were
laying bricks every
hour yeah and that's so true it took a
while to build the city of Rome it took
a while to build the city of T Tampa it
took a while to build Val Rico it takes
a while to build anything uh John
16:12 I still have many things to say to
you but you cannot bear them now there
is a time in a sequence of growth and
maturity and development and that's
still true for us all even now after
this many years yes you're never beyond
that in 1 Corinthians 3 and: 2 it says I
fed you with milk and not with solid
food for until now you were not able to
receive it and even now you're still not
able you don't give well you might give
a piece of steak to a child but but if
they don't have teeth they're just going
to gum it a little while and then put it
down right they're not going to be able
to eat it it's not going to happen
Hebrews 5:12 says by this time you ought
to be teachers there is a point in which
you should learn enough that you ought
to be able to teach everything we
believe now you might not be able to
give every chapter and verse for it but
everything that we believe you ought to
have a reason for believing it already
fixed in your mind if you've been a
Christian for any time at all no one
becomes a disciple overnight though not
really no one becomes a teacher in the
Bible classes overnight no one becomes a
minister no one becomes a deacon an
elder overnight it takes time and it's
not always easy Matthew 13: 5 and 6 puts
it this way some fell on Stony places
where they did not have much Earth and
they immediately sprang up because they
had no depth of Earth but when the sun
was up they were scorched and because
they had no root they withered away
that's one of the problems with
spiritual maturity as you develop some
Sometimes you seem to develop really
really really fast and then you
don't you don't if you develop really
really fast you're not developed It's
Just an Illusion it's growth on the
outside but not growth on the inside
there's got to be some root to you 1
Timothy 3 and: 6 says talking about
Elders not a novice not a new convert
lest being puffed up with pride he fall
the truth is is that anybody that's a
new I mean you may look at somebody oh
man they've grown so fast they're the
ones be careful it's
dangerous and no one becomes spiritually
mature by the Holy
Spirit now that may sound strange but
the Holy Spirit does not overpower
anybody and make you suddenly
spiritually mature that wouldn't be fair
it's not right and God would be taking
over
God will never take over your will God
will never overrule your will you are
free moral agents and you will never see
a time when the Holy Spirit comes on you
and you just couldn't help it you had to
suddenly be spiritually mature that
doesn't happen to anybody it didn't
happen to anybody in the New Testament
either so 1st Samuel chapter 10 verses
1-13 is a story that some people have
read and thought that that's what it's
talking about when it talks about Saul
going up to the Tabernacle and it says
in verse 6 then the spirit of the Lord
will come upon you and you will prophesy
with them and be turned into another man
see Saul was just overcome he suddenly
became spiritually mature and he was
ready to be king
then that's not really what that's
saying and that's not really true he
just got changed and caught up in the
moment let me suggest to you that Saul's
immaturity was clearly seen in several
areas seen in his fall I mean he wasn't
king long until God virtually said you
ain't fit to be king in first uh Samuel
15:23 it says because you've rejected
the word of the Lord because he's
supposed to kill all the amalekites he
also has rejected you from being King so
he hasn't been King long enough to
hardly you know dry up yet he's still
wet behind the ears and yet he's being
rejected as a king now he remained king
for a total of 40 years but that entire
40 years that he was a king he virtually
knew he wasn't going to be the line his
children would not be on the throne and
nobody from his family would be king
after him and he found that out early
that's quite a thing to find out Saul's
spiritual maturity is not only seen in
the fact that he literally
uh failed at the very beginning but it's
seen in his fears one of the big things
that will indicate spiritual maturity is
how you handle kind of scary things
things that frighten everybody else can
you walk into a place that everybody
else wants to run from right uh 1st
Samuel 17:1 when Saul and all Israel
heard these words of the Philistine
Goliath they were dismayed and greatly
afraid now what's interesting is the guy
who replaces him was he dismayed was he
afraid you remember David he's just a
kid was he afraid no what was the
difference between the two now one's
older than the other what's the
difference spiritual maturity not phys
it had nothing to do with David knew he
could take on a lion and a bear it had
everything to do with where his walk was
with God and apparently Saul's wasn't
that deep and he got scared easy Saul's
spiritual immaturity is also seen in the
foes that he had in 1st Samuel 18: 89
then Saul was very angry after this
killing of Goliath and the saying
displeased him that song that David had
U Saul had killed his thousand and David
his 10,000 and he said they have
ascribed to David 10,000 and to me they
have ascribed only thousands now what
more can he have but the kingdom well
that's what he got
and verse 9 so Saul IED David from that
day forward you know that's something
he's jealous of a man who isn't the king
he's jealous of a boy basically he's
jealous and he turns him into his enemy
when you turn a member of the kingdom of
God into your
enemy doesn't say you're
mature so be careful careful so I want
us to look at only four of the stages of
development what I'm trying to show you
is there are different stages we're at
different levels and let's walk through
and see Peter's okay can we do that here
we go number one Peter the Avid
piscator that's a word it means
fisherman by the way it says in Luke 5:
1 through1 I'll pick up in verse three
then he got into one of the boats which
was Simon's and as as him to put out a
little from the land and he sat down and
taught the multitude by the way sitting
was the common thing to do in his day
for speaking I wish it was almost that
now verse four when he had stopped
speaking he said to Simon launch out
into the deep and let down your nets for
a catch but Simon answered and said to
him Master we have told all night and
have caught nothing now I don't know if
you know this but if you fish all night
long you're pretty serious about fishing
he's trying to make a living He he
fished all night long and caught nothing
nevertheless at your word I will let
down the net and when they had done this
they caught a great number of fish and
their net was breaking so they signaled
to their Partners in the other boat to
come and help them and they came and
fill both boats so that they began to
sink that's a lot of fish when Simon
Peter saw it he fell down at jesus' knee
saying depart from me for I'm a sinful
Man O Lord for he and all who were with
him were a at the catch of fish which
they had taken verse 10 and so also were
James and John the son of Zebedee those
are in partnership with him who were
partners with Simon and Jesus said to
Simon do not be afraid from now on you
will catch men at the very beginning he
was an avid fisherman that's basically
who he was in fact he thought he was
such a bad guy that he didn't think a
rabbi cuz this about all he knew about
as a rabbi and of Miracles happened he
he didn't know that he was the Messiah
at this point he's like you shouldn't be
around
me I've seen a lot of new Christians
that say oh I'm I'm not up to Leading a
prayer I'm not I'm not up to doing
that number
two Peter the audacious
proclaimer look at what he proclaims in
Matthew 16 Now by this point he's grown
a good bit it says in verse 13 when
Jesus came into the region the cesaria
of Philippi he asked his disciples
saying who do men say that I the son of
man amam now this is at that famous
place where the water came out of the
ground at that point doesn't anymore
verse 14 so they said uh some say John
the Baptist some Elijah and others
Jeremiah or one of the prophets and he
said to them but who do you say that I
am who do you guys say who y'all think I
am that's an interesting question to ask
in it who do who do y'all think I am
verse 16 Simon Peter answered and said
you are the not a you are not Christ he
didn't say that you are the Christ the
Messiah the anointed one is what that
means you are the Christ which means
anointed to be the king you are the
Christ or the king the one anointed to
be the king the son of the Living God
well that's quite an extra statement the
first thing was pretty powerful but when
you say he's the son of the living God
that's saying something else verse 17
Jesus answered and said to them blessed
are you Simon bar Jonah son of Jonah for
flesh and blood has not revealed this to
you but my father who's in heaven and I
say to you that you're Peter and on this
rock I will build my church and the
gates of Hades shall not Prevail against
it that's more complicated maybe than it
looks right there and I will give you
the keys of the kingdom of heaven and
whatever you bind on Earth will be bound
or shall have been bound in heaven and
whatever you loose on Earth will be
loosed or shall have been loosed in
heaven uh similar passage to that
statement is made to not only the other
Apostles but to You and I by the way I
don't know if you ever noticed it but in
Matthew 18: 18 and 19 almost exactly
things said and what's interesting about
this is I I I don't necessarily hold to
the common way of viewing this and I'll
tell you why I mean most people try to
say that this is uh just about what
Jesus said what Peter had said that
you're the Christ the son of the Living
God and that's the rock here and uh
that's true that's absolutely true but
don't think that's all that he's saying
I think he's also saying that uh Peter
is uh he taken off on his name and he
would be uh the first to preach the
gospel and he did and and the others
with him so I think that's being
encompassed in this statement and then I
think also Peter and the other apostles
were the foundation of the church that's
actually true uh we read that directly
Ephesians 2:20 says Jesus and the
apostles are the foundation of the
church Revelation 21:14 says the
apostles are the foundation of the
church so there's a very real sense in
which he's saying the church will be
built upon Peter as well I know that's
going to bother some of you are just so
anti-catholic I'm just trying to reflect
the teaching of the text okay because I
think it in compasses all three concepts
and it's not to be decided oh it's got
to be this one to the exclusion of the
other one I think that it's in the the
neuter but it doesn't matter because
it's a general statement but what I want
you to see is that Peter is this
audacious proclaimer that even Jesus is
almost he almost looks like he's
surprised in how deep of a statement he
makes at this point in his ministry and
so I think it's both things all three
things actually then we reach into the
next space and Peter is the Ardent
preser so Peter in our text it was read
well a while ago by the way he did a
great job uh let me just read a couple
of things here again it says in verse 31
and the Lord said Simon Simon indeed
Satan has asked for you that he may sift
you as wheat but I have prayed for you
that your faith should not fail and when
you have returned stren strengthen your
brethren well he's going to mention when
his faith fell here in a second but he
said to him Lord Lord I'm I'm ready to
go with you both to prison and to death
I you don't have to worry about me I'm
not going to run I'll never quit I'm
going to hang in tough I'm willing to
die for you right now and some of you
may feel that way but only a few of us
probably and I'm not including myself in
that would actually do it okay because
you don't know until it happens that's
just the way it is you just don't know
until you actually Faith face death
whether or not thought you would do it
he thought he would but then when it
came it didn't turn that way verse 34 it
says then he said I tell you Peter the
rooster shall not Crow this day before
you will deny me three times that you
know me so the significance is he
presumed he was something that he wasn't
so at first he's just a fisherman but
he's an aid fisherman and then you see
him develop and now he's a audacious
proclaimer of who Jesus is and then he
develops a little further and he's
convinced that he's willing to die for
it but he's not yet and then it's Peter
the academic I want you to see and and
he's a presbyter he's an elder and I
want you to see that because you might
be surprised at what I'm fixing to tell
you about Peter in 1 Peter chap 5: 1-4
listen to what we know definitely in
this text and then I'll tell you
something unless you know uh uh the text
better 1 Peter 5 vers1 says the elders
who are among you I exhort I who am a
fellow Elder so he's claiming that he is
an elder we know that he's married
because he had a mother-in-law right we
know he's married we know because 1
Corinthians chapter 9 says he cared
about a wife so he as a wife apparently
has children he's raised them right he's
been a teacher he's met the
qualifications of 1 Timothy chapter 3
and Titus Chapter 1 he's an elder and so
who am a fellow Elder and a witness of
the sufferings of Christ
first and second Peter are some of the
best Greek in the New Testament it's the
highest Greek in it it's the most aidite
Greek we have in the New Testament so
that means that he was fluent in Greek
this is not just a backwoods guy
fisherman that doesn't know anything
doesn't know a lure from a net that's
not who this man was he's a businessman
not only a businessman but fluent in
Greek so he's no body's fool at all so
sometimes you know you may look at
people like this and they never develop
this man not only had developed in his
earlier life and could speak this he is
now developed in to the highest office
in the church today which is an
elder that's pretty great so that's the
simple lesson I just wanted you to see
how these people developed it's not just
them it's us uh Peter developed into
different stages there's a lot we can
talk about Peter we can go to Acts
chapter 2 Acts chapter 3 Acts chapter 4
acts 5 acts 10 acts 11 acts 12 acts 15
Galatians Chapter 2 we learned a lot of
things about
Peter we've seen Peter kind of grow up
spiritually but it didn't happen
overnight never does remember he had to
deny Jesus and then come back from
that that's the Peter we see that
becomes an elder let me say something
here I bet every one of us has either
quit or nearly
quit either quit or nearly quit we quit
in here even if we didn't quit out here
as folks keep going to church it's like
people are married had a lot of people
married that ain't
married they're in the same house I once
knew a couple that was in their
80s right and you would never would have
known it to go visit them but they never
spoke to each other they spoke to you
they couldn't stand each other couldn't
stand to speak to each other you can
stay together and not like each other
you can go to church and it not mean
anything to you it happens and so just
because you look like you're all there
don't mean you are we've seen Peter grow
up and he developed not everybody does
and not everybody who goes to church all
their life stay
with God in their heart that whole time
there's a group of tourists visiting a
picturesque Village in Europe one time
and there this old guy sitting beside
the fence you probably heard this one
tourist asked him uh we're coming in
this little village any great men born
in this town and the old man said nope
just
babies that's true nobody's born a great
person Great Men great women are first
first they're born then they're born
again and then they de develop and grow
just like Peter had to Peter having
grown up spiritually by the time he
wrote his books then first Peter uses
the term growth as newborn babes desire
the pure milk of the word that you may
grow thereby growth was important to him
by that point second Peter chapter 3
verse 18 Again points to growth but grow
in the grace and the knowledge of our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ to him be
the glory both now and forever amen
growth was on his mind why he was
getting up in years and he looked back
over it I see the need for growth and I
don't always see people trying to
grow Peter learned to grow up and we
need to stop playing around like
children uh Vance havner tells a story
and I believe this is true by the way
even though I don't know this personal
story but because I know enough about
Africa right now because I've lived over
there and I know the area he was talking
about I believe this
happened he said that there uh were some
boys he visiting Africa por of Africa my
guess is is it's Namibia is where he was
visiting but I don't know that he didn't
say where he was visiting but he was
visiting and he came upon some kids uh
um playing on the ground and playing
marbles but it was a time when diamonds
were plentiful by the way diamonds are
not rare I don't know if you know that I
know you've been sold that bill of
goods they're not
rare there are places where their Mounds
as big as this
building they just go on and on
and cut ones huge piles of cut diamonds
they're not rare but they really sold a
g bill of goods on us haven't they we're
all convinced they're worth oh $2,000
and you can find them on the ground
certain places literally and uh out off
the coast of Namibia uh they're they you
can't you walk down through there with
shoes that would pick them up in your
shoes you get shot they're just all
through there and you you go off and
swim out there you could literally you
could come home with pocket fulls of
them and you can go to jail quickly and
stay there forever if you tried and if
they catch you trying to swallow them
and take it out believe me they'll catch
you and oh no De Beers has done a really
good job and controlling that all right
well this was back before that had
happened before the beers had got
control of all the diamond trade and so
kids had picked up what looked like
marbles and there were diamonds and they
were playing marbles with diamonds in
the front
Square could it be that sometimes we're
like
children playing with the treasures of
God they we're like little
kids acting just playful about things
that really
matter where are you now in your
spiritual growth are you being childish
are you trying to grow and be mature
could you take a step closer to maturity
I think we all could if we were honest
for just a minute couldn't we couldn't
we
all take another step toward
maturity are you the most mature that
you could ever be surely you don't think
that right surely you don't think that
maybe you've been playing with
diamonds like it's not that big of a
deal maybe some that are older are
younger and some that are younger or
older we need to recognize our
immaturity amen let's try to recognize
it try to turn from it that's been the
point of this lesson I hope that Peter's
growth teaches us we can go we can go
places higher we need to try if you've
never given your life to the Lord though
you need to repent of your sins confess
the name of Christ and be baptized we'll
help you do that tonight if that's your
need but let's all try to grow God bless
you
