we can be and likely have been wrong in
how we've judged
others I know you try not to judge other
people but from time to time we slip
over into that we make little comments
about other people we can be and likely
wrong about what we think about others
Americans have reached 100% consensus
because the last election did y'all know
that yep all Americans are absolutely in
agreement 100% think 50% have lost their
mind and guess what they are all
wrong behind every Angry wife is a
husband who has absolutely no idea what
he did
wrong but he knows he's wrong
whereas the angry wife is wrong for
she's convinced that he knows what he
did wrong so they're both
wrong see that made you ladies happy it
should not surprise a Christian that the
world thinks we are
bad Matthew
24:9 you will be hated by All Nations
for the my name's sake
that's either true or not true I go with
it it's true John 15:18 if the world
hates you you know that it hated
me John 17:14 the world has hated them
and I skipped a little place here
because they are not of the
world in 1 Peter 4:16 if anyone suffers
as as a Christian which is a mocking
term at that time if anyone suffers as a
Christian let him not be ashamed
Christian was not a title given to us by
God it was given to us by the world and
the world used it to mock us so if you
suffer as a Christian let him not be
ashamed what things are true about us
what is it what's true about us that
makes the world think that we're crazy
that we're bad that we're not good that
we're not profitable what is it well I
can give you a list of things we should
all
know God's creation is what we believe
in while they believe in Natural
Evolution they don't like that we
believe in the biblical role of men and
women in
marriage we believe that the church
should be a pure place and
lgbtq rights
are not our
advocacy we believe that there is a
thing called fornication and they think
it's fine to have free love and live
together before you're married we know
that's a sin they don't like
that we don't believe that anybody
innocent should be killed but they
believe that a woman should have the
right to kill her innocent child we
don't agree about that and they don't
like it we believe that there's a great
need for humility in the world and we
try to practice it the world thinks
there's a great need for pride and they
try to practice
that we believe in the wisdom of God and
that we are foolish without it they
believe in their IQ and they're
brilliant without
it we honor submission and giving in and
doing it your way the world believes in
power and control and we're just weak
and they don't La those terms of
humility we believe in Freedom from sin
the world believes in Freedom to
sin we don't agree and they don't like
it our speech of love and grace stands
in opposition to the world's view of
hatefulness and restriction where they
would like like to restrict us and
control our speech because they think
we're the hateful
ones when all we want to do is love
everybody now they think they'll turn
whatever I say into that kind of thing
that it's hateful why is that done it's
sin Isaiah 5 and verse 20 says woe to
those who call evil good and good
evil nothing new right who call evil
good and good evil who put Darkness for
light and light for Darkness make no
mistake we are not in agreement with
much that the world teaches at
all so if you're coming here because you
want to hear that we agree with all of
them out there you're in the wrong place
we don't and they don't like us for it
the history of how the early World
attacked Christians for this kind of
thinking is clear the 2 century
Christian apologist atorus said early
Christians were accused of three crimes
cannibalism incest and Atheism I'll come
back to those in a moment that is what
they accuse but they accused of more
that was just three of the things in
late 2 century it became a fullscale
literally literary attack not literally
but
literary attack on
Christians all the poets they were all
taking a song cus for example in his
book chapter 44 mocks the teachings of
Jesus and Christians and suggests that
all Christians are a bit dimwitted let
me read a quote the following are the
rules laid down by them he's talking
about us Christians by them you're the
them let no one come to us who has been
instructed or who is wise or prudent for
such qualifications are deemed Evil by
us but if they being an ignorant or
unintelligent or uninstructed or foolish
person let them come with confidence by
which words they manifestly show they
desire and are able to gain over only
the silly that means the only reason
you're here is because you're silly and
the mean the only reason you're here is
because you're mean and the stupid
that's not my words folks but that's
what they said about you with women and
children 1 Corinthians chapter 1 verses
26 through 31 says that's what would
happen by the third
Century there was diverse and
localized persecutions there were three
three widespread but there had been many
persecutions of the church so you will
hear Li liberal Scholars who will try to
Advocate that we
overblow the persecution of the early
church oh no my friend we have not
overblown it at all there was an
absolute governmental attack on the
church in three virtually consecutive
Emperors of Rome the first one by
dius in 249 the second one valentinus in
257 and Dian which was the worst of all
in 303 in fact when the church leaders
got together after uh Dian there was no
preacher there that wasn't missing a leg
or a finger or an ear or an eye or
didn't walk with a limp or didn't have
some kind of problem because they had
been beaten so by the Roman government
Christianity however
thrived instead of it beating it down it
grew stronger despite the worldly hatred
and opposition here's the thing that
comes to mind when I start studying
stuff like this is that many of the
things early Christians were hated
for we're still hated
for so I want to look at that I want us
to walk through that path I want us look
at five major attacks that early
Christians went through when the world
said that Christians were bad number one
the world said Christians were
blasphemers we would say mockers in some
respect in mark 14:64 it says you have
heard the blasphemy what do you think
and they all condemned him that is Jesus
to be deserving of death because he
declared he was the son of God
well if they were right he wasn't the
Son of God then of course he was
blaspheming but if he's the son of God
he's only speaking the truth in 1
Timothy 6 and ver2 and haveth confessed
the good confession in the presence of
many we believe when we confess that
Jesus is the Christ the Risen Son of God
and Lord of all when we do that we're
giving honor and glory to him they
thought it was blasphemy who are the
they the Christians were suspected of
mocking God by calling Jesus his son who
are the they the first persecution did
not arise from Rome it arose from the
Jews the Jewish zealots particularly
zealots like the Apostle Paul later
known as Saul they were actually the
ones who mocked and blasphemed God of
course they didn't know that at the time
they Saul who would later be called Paul
BL had people blasphemed God's son
according to 1 Timothy 1:33 and in his
Zeal he compelled Christians to Blas
God's son and deny him acts 26:1 so
here's the deal they accuse the Church
of being
blasphemers now the world says we're all
mockers of truth and the median things
like that but we just speak truth and we
seek to praise God that's our goal but
there will misrepresent us at every turn
number two the world said Christians
were
incestuous they want us to be seen as
perverted they love it when you or I sin
that's the best thing in the world in 1
Timothy Chapter 5 and verse two older
women are as mothers younger women as
sisters with all Purity that's the way
we're to treat them Ephesians 3 verse1
15 the whole family in heaven and on
Earth see they accused the early Church
of being incestuous because they didn't
want to understand it they didn't want
to hear what was being said it was
easier to just say I've heard a
Christian over there call his wife his
sister by the way my wife is my sister
in the
Lord and your wife should be amen sister
in the Lord but if you're listening with
negative ears you hear what you
suspected there's something sinisterly
wrong with that group over there yeah
and Paul's day they regarded us as
perverted saying oh we're incestuous
here's what's really so hypocritical
about that can I explain to you why that
was such a hypocritical charge against
Christians in that
day because they were picking on the
church saying oh their mother is their
sister and their wife is their sister
and their child is their sister oh it's
all
incestuous they had no problem with
incest the Roman Empire had no problem
with any sexual perversion folks if you
think we are perverted today you need to
get take a little bit of an
understanding things haven't been better
in the past they might have been far
worse you might want to read a little
history on that one sexually they were
all kinds of sexual activity was
acceptable in common the average man it
was common for him to not be faithful to
his wife and nobody expected it all that
much in fact if you worship Artemis or
Diana it was common to send your wife up
for a month about once every year or two
to act as one of the
prostitutes that was a part of their
religion so you don't don't sit here oh
it's bad now you have no you need to
look into it it's actually so bad that I
can't even talk about what they did it's
that bad so homosexual Acts were
committed by everybody just
about yes people did that because they
just grew more and more
perverted they had slaves as you know
they had sex slaves there are people
that do that today but that was common
back then very common incest was
overlooked if you don't believe that
look into the Roman emperors almost all
of them were born out of incest in the
Empire it is a
mess you see we try to claim moral
Purity and so whenever one of us Falls
especially if a preacher Falls right oh
they're all
bad
right incestuous no we're not incestuous
and now the world says we're just
perverted morally and we're all hateful
we speak hate
speech we seek Purity and moral morality
and that's twisted and you know it's
true number three the world said
Christians were cannibals that's what
they call us cannibals today they just
say we're extremist I suppose John 6 and
verse 54 whoever eats my flesh and
drinks my blood has eternal life oh
there it is see they heard that the
world heard that kind of talk and they
said they must be cannibals they're in
there're eating people and drinking
blood 1 Corinthians 11: 27 therefore
whoever eats this bread or drinks this
cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner
will be guilty of the body and blood of
the Lord see if you hear what you want
to hear and you're able to twist it in
your mind these Christians were
suspected of extreme cannibalistic
rituals they didn't go there they just
heard things they wouldn't dare go there
but they could sure wag their tongues
about it right and say awful things what
they heard about communion was twisted
to condemn the weirdos over there that's
meeting usually at night because they
had to work as slaves in the daytime
cannibalism was condemned and only done
under in a Siege ever in the scriptures
and even then it was condemned I've
given you sufficient scripture if you
want to look that up and study it but
let me go where there was cannibalism
that people thought that was okay most
people haven't noticed this but molok
the worship of molok or moak required
children to be sacrificed they took
their babies because they didn't want to
have them they took their babies and
they burned them on the altar of molec
and then they apparently began to eat
them not always but they must have
because Ezekiel 23:37 says through the
fire to devour them that's the reason
they put them there so it is believed
that they did do that so all cannibalism
or any of this kind of thing where
somebody would want to drink blood is
condemned both by the Jews and by
Christianity and anybody that would say
otherwise was a liar in that day but it
wasn't unknown among the
Romans it wasn't unknown among the
Chinese
they practiced it Greece practiced it
India practiced it the Middle East
practiced it and in the Roman Empire
there was
cannibalism you can't believe it here is
one Doctor Who said that one of the best
ways to treat some medical problems
would be to drink their blood and so you
should go if you have epilepsy or some
other serious disease go to where the
Gladiators are take a cup with you and
try to get close and catch some of the
blood when they're being cut open or
when they're dying let it drain in there
and drink it oh yes and it was worse
than that but they recommended you gulp
it down it wasn't us it wasn't the
Church of Our Lord no we were honoring
the Lord that died for us cannibals no
but now the world says we're extremists
we talk about the body and the
blood as if you're not supposed to talk
about blood in fact my whole reference
to blood and cannibalism o we shouldn't
even have that conversation we I mean
that might hurt our little children's
ears we see the body and the blood and
remember Jesus and we will never stop
talking about the body and the blood and
the sacrifice of Christ his scourging
his bleeding his dying and a spear stuck
in his side we will never stop talking
about that the number
next the world said Christians were
atheists what they said they believed
that we were all anti-science now you
got to understand what they mean by an
anti- science that just meant anti-n
knowledge the word science to them was
the word knowledge so basically they
were just were just anti-n knowledge but
listen to Psalm 115 verse2 what was said
by Gentiles even back then why should
the Gentiles say where where is their
God would they ever say that about the
Jews yeah show me your
god what do you
mean Colossians 1:15 he is the image of
the invisible God how do I show you my
God he's invisible how am I going to do
it you see they could show their gods
they had them all over the place they
had them everywhere and so all of the
all the way back to the time of Socrates
in 39 99 who was killed because he
advocated that there were no gods and
you didn't have to worship all the gods
he taught the same but it changed in 399
Socrates was tried found guilty in an
Athenian Court executed for charges of
impiety which they meant was atheism and
corrupting the youth that you would dare
teach that these Idols don't represent
real
gods but they said a similar thing about
Christians in that day as the UR was
started the Christians were seen to be
like Socrates because Socrates belief
they thought would tear up Society I'll
say more about that a little bit but
basically they declared us as Christians
to be atheists because we couldn't show
them our God we had no shrines we had no
temples we had no altars we had no
images of our God we had no sacrifices
to our God we didn't participate in
their cult Greek greo Roman gods because
they were worshiping every turn and the
the Christians rejected the Pagan
deities as an imperial cult they refused
to take part in the traditional rights
to the gods and they were unwilling to
be part of every social activity because
in every social activity there was
always a toast to the gods and the food
was offered to the gods we're not part
of a guild and in those days and though
the guilds if you were a part of a guild
a fishing Guild or a Baker's Guild you
had to honor the gods or you couldn't be
a part of the guild so it kicked all of
those who were Bakers or fishermen out
of the guild it's hard to make a living
when you're out of the
guild so these Christians worshiped a
deity like no other and it Disturbed the
world around them Larry herado wrote
destroyer of the Gods early Christians
distinctives in the Roman world if you
want to read something that'd be
interesting to you these Christian
deities could not the deity excuse me
could not be represented by an image
because we have no idea right how you
would ever make an image of an
invisible how would you do it she a
glass I don't know how you do it these
Christian religions they just didn't
understand them because the church was
bookish that's right that's what I said
the early church was bookish they never
had a religion like that it was bookish
what do you mean bookish I mean they got
together they made copies of these books
over and over again that was weird to
them and then they sat around and read
them in their services that was odd to
them they didn't do anything like that
in their worship they preferred codexes
instead of Scrolls they didn't
understand that that just didn't make
any sense to them it was not what they
did they made sacrifices animals died no
that wouldn't happen in the Christian
church and it confused them they thought
oh they don't worship any God after all
and in the Christian church what we
valued was a worship that was verbal and
it was prayers and it was songs as you
heard earlier ding of the Ephesians for
how long emus of the Ephesian how long
was that two hours that's the kind of
worship they had believe it or not you
would go into some of these worships
they would repeat the same tham which is
a short song or a short statement and
they would do it for hours on end and
drink heavily while they're doing it and
then whenever they got confused and
started
saying they thought the gods were
speaking through
them and that happened and that was
their worship so they didn't understand
ours and they didn't understand our
lifestyle changing to love for your
enemies that's just sounds weak so they
accuse Christians of being a IST and now
the world says we're anti-science it's
not true but they say it oh yeah you
guys are probably the antivaxers you're
the anti-climate thing we just believe
in God and believe the world belongs to
him what's wrong with that believe God
and heal anything is that what's wrong
with that apparently everything
according to the world the last lesson I
want you to look at
is the world said Christians were
subversives they were basically
insurrectionists folks we don't believe
in
Insurrection listen to me not a
Christian would be involved in
Insurrection nope not a one no not a let
me drag you down to what they were
saying and Acts 17:6 says they dragged
Brethren to the rulers of the city and
cried out these who have turned the
world upside down have come here too why
did they think Christianity was turning
their world upside down it relates right
to what we're talking about our religion
how did that do it you may not
understand it yet so I want to get to it
in this point Acts 19 I go back and read
just a little bit that what uh Nathan
read verse 26 you you see and hear that
not only at Ephesus but throughout all
almost all of Asia uh he says that Paul
has persuaded and turned away many
people saying that they are not Gods
which are made with hands verse 27 so
not only is the the tra our trade in
danger of falling into dispute but also
the Temple of the Great Goddess uh and
it'll be despised and are magnificent
destroyed verse 28 and they were full of
Wrath and cried out saying great is
Diana of the Ephesians these Christians
were depicted as deeply subversive
against the government for
this that's
right subversion against the government
let me
explain they believed that they couldn't
function without the
gods these Christians destroyed their
social their religious and their
political Roman order because how
important this concept of God worship
was embedded in their culture these
Christians were foolish and even
dangerous because of what they were
doing they refused to practice the Roman
polytheism
or civil government sponsored worship of
gods by the way this is one of the
reasons you don't want the government
sponsoring religion it was totally
behind this paganism and they embedded
it in their
arts and their feasts in their
sacrifices and in their plays there was
no aspect of the Roman life that didn't
have the worship of gods embedded in it
it was so critical to their life that
you could not they didn't believe you
could trust anybody that didn't worship
the gods because every time you signed a
contract you sealed it with the worship
of the Gods every time you made a
commitment you sealed it with the
worship of the Gods every time you had a
social event you sealed it with the
worship of the Gods it didn't matter
which one it was that wasn't important
it it was only that you sealed it with
the worship of the Gods and so whenever
you eliminate that all oath taking was
being broken all contracts were being
broken even the defense of the city
couldn't be trusted because everybody
had sworn by the gods to defend the city
they were scared that the whole empire
would collapse and one thing that the
Romans would not trust or tolerate was
any kind of disorder or instability
that's why they had to go after
Christians they thought it's seen now
today that uh Christians are radical
risky ride wide range social
upheaval that we're not actually causing
and they weren't
either so subversiv now the world says
that we're insurrectionist and trust and
they that we want to inflame everybody
last thing we want we pray for the Peace
of the world Amen we I hope you're
praying for the Peace of Jerusalem amen
I think we should be praying for every
we obey all the laws and try to be moral
and yet we're accused of all kinds of
things so you see above what they accuse
them of and how that's changed even to
this day but here's what's interesting
it's despite all of this criticism all
of that all did you see up there the
church did great in the middle a big
attack like this the church was growing
by Leaps and Bounds and Leaps and Bounds
moving here and there and everywhere and
so much so that it just overcame and
finally the emperor became a believer in
Jesus when the emperor Valance
threatened uus with confiscation of his
Goods torture banishment or death here's
what he
said he needs not fear confiscation who
has nothing to lose nor banishment to
whom Heaven is his country nor torment
when his body can be destroyed at one
blow nor death which is the only way to
set him at Liberty from sin and
sorrow he was then banished the thce and
then the Emperor valin died in 378 and
he was able to come home but right after
he got home
379 AR and a woman found a roof tile and
from above clouded him in the head and
killed
it if you visited Rome anybody here
visit Rome ever visit Rome been to Rome
don't be afraid it's not an
embarrassment to go to Rome it's not a
sin to go to Rome been to Rome you
likely visited the Coliseum right if you
visited the Coliseum if you listen to
the liberal people today and I when I
mean liberal I mean not religiously now
as much as we are just liberal society
that doesn't want a religion to be a
dominant they like to say that there
weren't that many deaths there weren't
very many Christians killed by in the
Coliseum there were a handful they'll
say and there really weren't that many
Christians killed or persecuted across
the
Empire it's a
lie were Christians really fed to the
lines
yes hungry half starved Lions Christians
were buried
alive they were put in sack with
snakes they were hacked to death in
front of a
crowd Christians who died in the
Coliseum though it might surprise you
wanted to die as
Martyrs at that time in the Roman Empire
Christians had a choice you don't have
to die you don't have to be persecuted
all you got to do is sacrifice to one of
the Roman gues so all you got to do just
do that right now and we'll drop this
case right now it won't go any further
in fact if you don't want to do it if
you you've got a slave just let them do
it for you as a proxy you don't even
have to do it just do that and you'll be
fine some took them up on that but most
didn't and the persecution St ignacius
was the first Christian who died in the
Roman Coliseum he chose to die in front
of tens of thousands of
people over 3,000 Christians died in
that Coliseum don't let anybody tell you
different over
3,000
because nobody understood them that's it
just didn't understand them not because
of who they were but because of what
they thought they were think about that
just a
second not because of what they were
because of what they thought they were
and then across all the Empire many
thousands more were killed and many
thousands more but there's still
Christians being killed today why would
that be the case one year not long ago
there was about a 100,000 Christians
died It's Not Unusual today to find
Christians dying for their faith why not
understood not understood if you're here
and you're worldly today you probably
don't understand us
either yet Christianity survived th
thrived and despite the world's
opposition so what about your version of
Christianity here's a question for us
all can our version of Christianity
survive there's a question in
it is my version of Christianity
faithful enough that it can survive and
thrive is my version of Christianity not
only able to survive and thrive but
despite the fact that they misunderstand
me and you stand up for what we believe
anyway there's your
choice will you take a stance or is it
more important that everybody just like
you I want to tell you a little secret
everybody in this room doesn't like
you I guarantee that somebody in here
might be sitting right next to you but
doesn't like you not all the time nobody
likes you all the time and nobody
understands you all the time you're
married right nobody understands you all
the time so the idea that the world
should just understand us and love us
that's just a little ridiculous isn't it
it's really
ridiculous so who you going to stand
with them because it makes you feel
good or the Lord because it's the right
thing will you repent of your sins
confess the name of Christ and be
baptized and join the ones who the world
don't understand
are you going to join the other
side because you don't like us either
it's your choice make a decision why we
stand and while we sing
