a teen in
Baghdad Arizona there's a Baghdad
Arizona a teen in Baghdad Arizona wrote
this it was much longer than this but
I'm just just quote the one little part
that I thought was
pertinent now sit me down in school
where praying is against the rule for
this great nation under God finds
mention of him very odd if scripture now
the class recites it violates the Bill
of
Rights and anytime my head I bow becomes
a federal matter
now it
shifted we'll talk more about that later
but prayer in
school why
pray I want to tell you a story about a
Scottish preacher named Robert Robert
Moffett some of you may even have some
of his commentaries he's a missionary to
South Africa about 150 years
ago now one of his returns back to
Scotland he went back to probably to
raise money but definitely went back to
enlist more missionaries to go to South
Africa to help him one little church he
went to I if you've never done this kind
of work you don't know how hard this is
going around various churches and trying
to drum up support or get somebody to go
is is difficult I've done it and so only
uh uh uh women showed up one Sunday
night it was only women there and it's a
little bitty church and it's raining and
it's cold and none of the men came so
since he's looking for missionaries and
this is way back in the time when women
basically didn't do Mission work they
just didn't go it's too dangerous
so he started to cancel the whole thing
started not to speak or do anything
because it's just a little crowd it's a
bunch of women nobody there to speak to
he thought but he thought well I'll do
it anyway and and while he was speaking
because he was he's speaking to the need
of how the Lord of harvest need to send
forth labors into the Harvest we need to
be praying about that so he kind of went
at it from that direction and he made
this comment while he's speaking uh
every morning when I get up and look at
the Horizon I see the smoke from a
Thousand Villages where the name of
Christ has never been heard so that was
his time
zone he didn't think anybody was there
that would even be able to go but there
happened to be a teenage boy there but
it wasn't obvious because he was up in
the attic and he'd been working on in
the attic and so the boy actually heard
every word he spoke and it haunted him
and particularly that phrase the smoke
from a Thousand Villages where the name
of Christ has never been heard and at
that moment he decided to become a
missionary his name was David he
eventually got his doctor's degree and
he went to South Africa where he hooked
up with uh Robert Moffett he actually
ended up marrying his daughter but he
stayed there for a while and he decided
he wanted to go more Inland to do more
work Inland and so he headed up through
kind of my wife's territory went up
through what was known as redia back
then all the way and he he's the first
white man in the area for as far as we
know back in discovering Victoria Falls
he traveled about 29,000 miles and uh
his name was David Livingston you
probably know of him that way there's a
Livingston uh Northern Zambia now or
Zambia but some of the natives didn't
want him even though he was trying to
teach him about Jesus it wasn't
necessarily a popular thing and so it
was actually dangerous where he went
often one warlike tribe said that they
were going to kill him I mean they sent
out the word they're going to end
him and his whole party and one
afternoon when they got the word they
were making camp and uh the word was
that a group of Warriors had been sent
out tracking him and had followed him
all day and they were just outside the
camp and so when they would go to bed
that night they were going to come in
and kill them
all and this comes from David
Livingston's own journal January the
14th
1856 different world back then wasn't it
here's what he said says and by the way
you could read it in his handwriting
it's
jerky he was
scared it is the evening I feel much
turmoil and fear in the prospects of
having all of my plans knocked on the
head by Savages who are just now outside
the
camp but Jesus said all power is given
unto me in heaven and on Earth and lo
I'm with you always even until the end
of the Earth and what's interesting is
you literally can see it his handwriting
steadies he
continues this is the word of a
gentleman of most strict and sacred
honor talking about Jesus so that the
end it it's the end of my fear I feel
quiet and calm now and his writing is
perfectly
straight they didn't attack that night
they were there surrounded it but they
didn't
attack later that tribe was taught
brought into faith in Christ a couple of
years after that David lingon had an
opportunity to speak to the chief who
had ordered that they'd be
killed he said to him do you remember
the night you were tracking my party he
said
yes well we had heard rumors that you
were going to attack us he said that's
right we were ready to attack the camp
that night and kill you and everyone
else in
it Livingston said well why didn't you
attack
then he said well when we got close to
the camp we looked and saw about 47
Warriors surrounding your camp with
swords in their hands this is from David
Liv Livingston he was baffled he said we
didn't have any soldiers we didn't have
any Warriors was a small
group but later on Furlow to Scotland
again trying to raise money he shared
his story in a in a church that was
supporting him at the time a man came up
to him afterwards with the prayer
Journal of his
own and he says look at what I
wrote he said I wrote it down January
the 14th
1856 the very night he was surrounded it
was the night and David lingon saides
that's the night he said' look at what I
wrote that night a group of men came to
pray for you we prayed for your
protection I wrote it down there were 47
men there that night praying for
you now whether or not that story is
true or not you just leave it to a man
who would risk his life who would write
that down I kind of think that's a true
story we can pray in for and over people
wherever they are we can pray in for and
over people in school who never even
hear our prayers sometimes we forget
that we can pray intercessory
prayers is there prayer in school is
there prayer over public
education we must put prayer back in our
schools so
pray what you waiting on that's all it
takes you want to put prayer back in
school
pray we must pray daily in our schools
young people so
pray we don't need the government to
approve it we don't have to have
teachers teaching
it
pray what's stopping you we must pray
and pour out our hearts to God in our
schools so pray we must pray loud
publicly and silently privately in our
schools you see it's not against the law
for you to actually pray out loud in
your school it's wrong for your teacher
to force you to do it according to the
law but it is not wrong for you to pray
and you can pray anywhere you are
anytime you are and no one can say
anything about it so
pray pray Where You Are pray in for and
over every situation are in I only to
give you seven questions that I think
answer this in a different kind of way
and so I want you to think
about maybe stop using the excuses well
it's not
legal number one is there prayer in
devotion 1 Samuel 1:15 says and Hannah
answered and said no my Lord I am a
woman of sorrowful heart I have drunk
neither wine nor intoxicating drink and
she's saying this at the Tabernacle of
meetings where you go to worship but
have poured out my soul before the Lord
she was a barren woman she wanted a
child she asked God for a child as you
know she got her answer his name is
Samuel first and second Samuel named
after him as you know so she moved her
lips but she didn't make a sound it's
acceptable to pray
silently okay and so you can pray in
devotions and ignore the preacher that
if you get tired of what I'm doing just
sit there and pray amen you can pray in
the middle amen just pray pray he gets
better with the next
Point number
two it is there prayer in cessation when
things are falling apart when you're not
getting healthier you're getting worse
listen to me every last one of you this
going to happen to you're going to get
sicker and weaker and you're going to
die we are all going to do that unless
we're killed in a car wreck or a rock
falls out of the sky to kill us okay
we're going to die so in 2 Kings 20 and
verse 2 when ESI is told he's going to
die and not live he turns his face
toward the allall and he prayed to the
Lord Isaiah 38 tells this whole story
all over again and the Lord sends the
prophet back in and he's promised 15
more years that sounds like a lot but
that means he's going to die at 45 so
but the point is is when you are told
you're going to die when you're told
this is all over when you're told it's
over man no matter what you think that's
the best time you've ever found to pray
just pray pray and pray that day so we
should pray in devotion we should pray
in sensation when everything's about to
stop thirdly is there prayer in
companions yes when companions aren't
being the best companions you've ever
had yes when you have your friends you
thought around you and they're not being
the friends you thought they should be
what should you do well you don't even
have to say it out loud you can move
your lips if you want to but you don't
even have to do that you can pray
silently in job 30:16 and now my soul is
poured out because of my plot the days
of Affliction take hold of me we may
think the hardest thing that happened to
job was his afflictions physically and
the loss of his children but maybe the
hardest thing he faced because it's
almost the whole book is his friends
nailing his skin to the
wall that may be the hardest thing we
ever face so you pray for them
and when he prayed for them he got
double for all of his trouble when
friends hurt you that's a good time to
pray you ever had your friends hurt you
people that you thought you could count
on hurt you
pray number four is there prayer and
depression some of you are depressed I
know that's true because you pull for
the wrong teams Psalm
42:4 when I remember these things I pour
out my Soul within me for I used to go
with the multitude I went with them to
the house of God with the voice of joy
and praise he's saying he doesn't do
that anymore with the multitude that
keep a pilgrimage fast so basically
there are times when we don't feel like
rejoicing we are depressed and when
you're so so sad that you don't even
know how to get out of your bed in the
morning and believe me I know something
about this I'll talk about this tonight
when you you don't even know how to make
the next step you're so
sad when even church at church it
doesn't even help you you come and you
leave and you don't feel any better for
it what should you do
pray pray in your depression pray in it
for it over
it number next is there prayer and
oppression when there are people that
want to harm you want to do you in
literally Psalm 62:8 trust in him at all
times you people pour out your heart
before him God is a refuge for us when
it seems like everybody's against you
you think the whole worlds against
everything you stand for or who you are
or what you believe that's the time when
you're low and men are trying to get at
you pray it's appropriate time
is there prayer in oppression yes there
is is there prayer in destruction it's
up to you see that's when there's prayer
there and when you're being destroyed
Lamentations 2: 19 and by the way there
are people that will try to destroy
everything you are lamentation 2: 19 it
was happening to them literally
physically listen to what it says arise
cry out in the night at the beginning of
the watches pour out your heart like
water before the face of the Lord pray
with it give it all you've got lift your
hands toward him for the life of your
young children who faint from Hunger at
the head of every street oh we've never
seen this we could we've never seen it
this bad so what do you do when
destruction is upon you when an enemy
looks like he's winning like the devil
when you look out and you see the devil
and you think the Devil's winning or he
has one already and it's almost gone
it's almost over what better thing to do
than to pray is there prayer and
destruction it's up to you to decide to
answer that question and then number
last is there prayer and
seclusion when you're all
alone you're all
alone Matthew 6:5 and 6 he read it a
while ago and when you pray you shall
not be like the Hypocrites for they love
to pray standing in the synagogues or
the churches or the assemblies and on
the corners of streets that they may be
seen by men so everybody will know how
spiritual they are assuredly I say to
you they have their reward they got
exactly what they wanted they just
wanted you to look and go wow isn't he
great but
you when you
pray go into your room when you shut
your
door and nobody is
there nobody there to
listen you pray to your father who is in
the secret place and your father who
sees you in that secret place where will
reward you openly in Luke 6 and verse2
we read of Jesus praying all night
alone in Matthew 26:39 on the night he's
betrayed he goes a few steps Beyond
where the others could hear
like a stone's throw and prays alone on
the night he's being betrayed so when no
one knows and no one sees but God pray
so what's a point of all
this well if I can pray in my devotional
moments like sitting here like some of
you that's what you should do on Sundays
cuz you don't like to listen to me or
you don't like whoever's talking or you
don't follow what it is or you get
confused and now what do I do or or
something comes up in the topic and you
go you know I need to pray about it pray
about it right in the middle of this
yeah not paying attention yes it that's
great pray about it right there right
then don't wait you can wherever you are
when you are dying or when you think
you're dying or one midnight when
everything's going wrong and you're
calling the ambulance pray
when your companions aren't the
companions you thought they were and
they're not being kind to you and
they're talking to you so harsh in the
middle of their conversation and they're
saying ugly things do you pray right
then right there when you're depressed
and you don't know what to do that's the
time to pray when you have someone who's
oppressing you that's the time to pray
when you are facing destruction that's
the time to pray when you were all alone
that's the time to pray what is the
point of all of that so why can't you
pray in school
where is it that you can't
pray if there's no prayer in our schools
it's not because it's not
legal it's not because it's not
needed it's because we've not prayed in
for and over them Richard Foster I love
his books on um on discipline and it's
not the discipline you're thinking about
Christian
disciplines he says inter accessory
prayer is Priestly Ministry and one of
the most challenging teaches in the New
Testament is the universal priesthood of
all Christians as priests appointed and
anointed by God we have the honor of
going before the most high in behalf of
others this is not optional it is a
sacred obligation and a precious
privilege of all who take up the Yoke of
Christ it is our
duty to pray for whoever the president
happens to be whoever's in Congress
who's ever in the Supreme Court we're
supposed to pray for our local police or
Sheriff Department we're supposed to
pray for anybody that's over us anybody
that has power over us but we're also to
pray for our schools and the teachers we
should be in prayer all the time this
bus is about fussing about it and saying
I can't believe they teaching this you
heard what the teaching down there when
did you pray about it all you're doing
is fussing about it stop fussing and
pray spend a night a night in prayer to
God over your school then I believe that
you care other than that I think all
you're doing is making political
speeches and feeling all chuffed about
yourself if you're serious about it pray
about
it we can pray for and over people who
never hear our prayers 1 John 5:16 says
that when you see someone sin you pray
for them right pray for them right then
so but people need to hear our prayers
they do need that people need to hear
our prayers because people need the Lord
folks quite honestly people need the
Lord more than you think there's uh Greg
Nelson and Philip McHugh wrote this in
1984 every day they pass me by I can see
it in their eyes empty people filled
with care headed who knows where on they
go through private pain living fear to
fear laughter hides their Silent Cries
that only Jesus hears so people need the
Lord people need the Lord at the end of
a broken dream he's the open door people
need the Lord people need the Lord when
will we realize that people need the
Lord they need to hear you pray they
need to see you pray we are called to
take his light to a world world where
wrong seems right that's not new that's
the way it's always been you think it's
new oh the world's coming to an end
because that's so terrible now it's
always been terrible out there what do
you think sin
is we are called to take his light to a
world where wrong seems right what could
be too great a cost for sharing life
with one who's lost through his love our
hearts can feel all the grief they bear
they must hear the words of life that
only we can share and one of the best
ways you can do it is let them know that
that the Lord cares by praying for them
people need the Lord people need the
Lord at the end of Broken Dreams he's
that open door so you need to just see
that people need to see you
praying public
schools have prayed for nearly 200 years
before The Supreme Court ruled that what
what they struck down was state
mandated class prayers led by teachers
and they decided that that was
unconstitutional that too close to
building a a church Engel versus vatal
in June of 1962 is when that happened
but what we haven't thought about
sometimes is what the former Secretary
of Education William Bennett said he
reviewed that 1960 to 1990 he said
divorces doubled in that period age
pregnancy went up 200% teen suicide
increased 300% violent crime went up
500% I wonder if we could pray hard
enough that all those statistics would
go down do you believe God Can Make a
Difference do you really he can make a
difference well then let's put prayer
back in school kids when you're in
school pray Lord please help me to make
an A on this
test
it's okay to pray
that let us put prayer back for schools
praying for the teachers praying for the
administration praying for the Board of
Education pray for them and let's put
prayer back over schools daily prayers
for all the kids that are there by the
way Foundation Christian Academy has
prayer in
school so maybe we just need to pray
more I'm not sure they pray enough who's
sure you pray enough so we could all
pray
more
amen let's pray every chance we
get what about right now pray with me
Holy
Father I don't know what's wrong with us
father we talk to everybody and we talk
too much we'll sit around talk about
nothing we'll talk about the weather
we'll just sit and Rattle and Rattle and
talk about each other father we don't
even know how to hush and then it comes
to you and we have no
words so please father help us to open
our mouth so you can feel it help us to
open our mouth wide so you can fill it
fill it with what we need help us to
speak the words and ask you we ask you
to help us so we ask you to bless our
schools bless the kids bless the
teachers
we pray that all of our kids will learn
to pray wherever they
are we ask it in the name of Jesus our
lord amen so pray that God moves in our
hearts that we will pray
more or that we'll give our life to the
Lord a good thing to pray for is that
all the kids we know would know the
Lord if you would repent of your sins
confess the name of Christ and be
baptized you could come to know the Lord
properly won't you to do so if you need
to right now by coming forward while we
stand and while we sing
