you know being a gentleman or a gentle
woman or gentle lady is a gift of the
spirit to all of us literally um and
it's it's hard to sometimes be gentle
Jiu-Jitsu how many of you know jiujitsu
you know Jiu-Jitsu yeah uh my kids I put
both my kids in Jiu-Jitsu in South
Africa I heard this definition
jiujitsu is the gentle art of folding
clothes
with people still in
them Miss Smith was a preschool teacher
at her
church she always tried to be a real
gentle lady with her students always
very tender caring one Sunday she found
one of her little boys making ugly faces
at some of the other kids in the
classroom so Miss Smith stopped the
little boy and gently as he she could
reprimanded him uh and she did it with a
smile but she said you know Johnny when
I was a little girl my Sunday school
teacher gently corrected me for making
ugly
faces she said that making an ugly face
could freeze and stay like that so
please
stop making ugly
faces and the little boy looked really
serious and looked up at her for a
moment and then replied well Miss Smith
you can't say you weren't
warned that was very gentle was
it
gentleness uh so let's look at the Greek
word this is basically the meaning of
the word for gentle it means mild or
kind seamly Equitable
yielding
Fair considerate humble Meek all of
that's included in the meaning I thought
this was
helpful so a gentleman or gentle lady or
gentle woman is one who thinks twice
before speaking once I like that one who
thinks of things far enough in advance
not to say
them
one who stands on their own two feet
without stepping on others
toes one who corrects whatever is
offensive In Their
Manners and one who does not rehearse in
their mind the rebuke they want to give
that's a tough one
there so the Bible gives a few
descriptions of how to be gentle let's
look at about eight of them this isn't a
full list but I think it's interesting
uh it suggests the idea that if you're
going to be gentle you got to be gentle
as a savior like the Lord Jesus said in
Matthew 11: 29 take my yoke upon you and
learn from me for I am gentle and lowly
in heart and you will find rest in your
souls and think about how far the Lord
was willing to go to save you and still
intercedes for you in his acts of
gentleness be gentleness as a suckler
someone who would literally nurse a
child because that's the way it's used
in 1 Thessalonians 2:7 but we were
gentle among you just as a nursing
mother cherishes her own children you
don't see a nursing mother being harsh
or mean or slinging a child around or
hitting them very very kind and gentle
be gentle as a shepherd and this is
talking about Elders so Elders are
supposed to be gentle because it says in
1 Timothy 3:3 not given to Wine not
violent not greedy for money but gentle
not quarrelsome not Covetous this is one
of the reasons sometimes Brethren think
that they can just talk any which way
they want to come into an elders and
I've seen Elders be blasted many times I
know that may sound strange but I've
seen the eldership just blasted if
they'd have been uh lesser people they'd
have been near killed by the blast but
they're to be gentle and that means they
kind of yield and let it roll off of
them to some degree be gentle as a
servant 2 Timothy 2 and verse 24 and a
servant of the Lord talking about people
in Ministry particularly a servant of
the Lord must not quarrel but be gentle
to all able to teach patient and so if
you're going to teach someone to obey
the gospel you can't be Gruff you have
to give the room to be wrong about some
stuff if you think you've got to correct
everybody on every point to convert them
that's a mistake it's best to stick to
the important stuff and be gentle enough
to let some of the stuff roll off and
not argue about everything because some
people will argue with a stump and win
and be gentle as a stumbler or a sinner
if you will Titus 3 veres 2 and 3 says
to speak evil of no one to be Peaceable
gentle showing all humility to all men
why verse three makes the argument for
we ourselves were also once foolish
disobedient deceived serving various
lusts and Pleasures living in Malice and
envy hateful and hating one another so
aware of the fact that I am a stumbler
myself I've sinned enough myself I ought
to be able to be gentle with someone
that I'm trying to teach who's sinning
so be gentle as a sage someone who's
really wise if you're really wise you
should be more gentle foolishness is
bound up in the heart of someone who
can't be gentle James 3:17 says but the
wisdom that is from above is first pure
then Peaceable gentle willing to yield
which is the same meaning versally full
of mercy and good fruits without
partiality and without hypocrisy so if
you're really wise you need to learn to
be gentle with the people that might
disagree with you be gentle as a
sufferer so if you have suffered been
mistreated and I mean this in that light
you need to learn to be gentle when you
are being mistreated or when you other
people feel that they're being
mistreated 1 Peter 2:8 servants be
submissive to your master ERS with all
fear not only to the good and gentle but
also to the harsh so we're to have that
Gentle Spirit as well and be gentle as a
sweetheart so if you're going to have a
relationship with your mate then you
have to be gentle with them but listen
to what 1 Peter 3 and ver4 says rather
let it be the hidden person of the heart
so if you're going to make a
relationship with anybody particularly
the person you love it is from the hid
hidden person the heart with The
Incorruptible beauty of a gentle and
quiet Spirit which is very precious in
the S of God so when we are sweethearts
ourself or our mate we consider them as
sweethearts that's usually the result of
A Gentle Spirit now I don't know about
you but I struggle with being gentle I
can be pretty tough and have been
probably tough on people and I shouldn't
have been so it's a struggle for me I
need prayers about this maybe more than
anybody in the room so I want to look at
three Christian works and duties that's
are it's essential that you be gentle to
pull these off so these are duties we
know that are
ours but you can't do them properly
unless you show gentleness in it okay
number one gentleness is essential for
the Christian work of restoration so you
know someone's in sin they were faithful
Christians but now they're in sin and
they're really struggling or they're not
even trying to do what's right how do
you deal with them Galatians 6 and verse
one Brethren if a man is overtaken in
any trespass you which are spiritual
restore so this is a restoration process
restore such a one in a spirit of
gentleness considering yourself lest you
also be tempted so the best advice that
the Holy Spirit has given us and how to
restore someone is with a spirit of
gentleness you don't do it by you know
like a bull in a china shop you won't
get them back that way being really
really tough It's unlikely you'll get
them so the unrighteous though here's
what they expect and what they want the
unrighteous
that doesn't want to be restored at the
moment you first talk talking to them
otherwise it already be restored right
the unrighteous want to
fight that's what they
want but one who is spirit filled
desires to be gentle with those needing
restoration 1 Corinthians 4: 211 what do
you want shall I come to you with a rod
or in love and in a spirit of
gentleness you see the truth is is that
people who are in sin rather than being
corrected being restored would like a
good fight a good
argument that's why you have to have
that Spirit of gentleness or you'll
never reach them it'll just be a big
blow up and a big
ugly so the fruit of the spirit of
gentleness is essential for restoration
and restoration is a key responsibility
of all of us we all know people who
aren't coming to church
regularly we all know
them but you just can't go in there and
chew them out you go gently number
next gentleness is essential for the
Christian work of
unification and by that I mean bringing
Brethren together who are at odds oh
they're not they've not quit the church
they're in the church but they biting
each other how do you get people who are
biting each other to be United because
Ephesians 4: 2 through3 say this with
all loneliness and gentleness with
longsuffering bearing with one another
in love endeavoring to keep the unity of
the spirit and the bond of Peace if
we're going to always be United if we're
going to maintain that Unity if we're
going to get people to come back to that
Unity who are not showing that Spirit of
unity then we have to be gentle you see
the unspiritual or the divisive
individual really want to fight they
really do they want a good fight but one
who is spirit filled desires to be
gentle with those needing unification
because here's the truth there's nothing
better than Brethren dwelling together
in unity it's one of the most blessed
bless experiences you can have amen amen
and it feels good well here's a good
example Philippians CH 4:
2-5 Paul knows these two individuals
that sound like they weren't getting
along verse two I implore uoda and I
implore stii to be of the same mind in
the Lord apparently they were not verse
three and I urge you also True Companion
help these women who labor with me in
the gospel with Clement also and the
rest of my fellow workers whose names
are in the Book of Life rejoice in the
lord always verse four again I say
rejoice and then he says let your
gentleness be known to all men the Lord
is at hand here's the truth without a
spirit of gentleness you're not going to
be able to get two people who are at
odds to talking to each other the way he
speaks here to these people very
respectful and if you're going to help
someone who's at odds with each other in
the church and you're going to see that
you're definitely I mean if you've been
around a little while you know that
there's been people who boom you know
that that just happens enough people in
the room somebody's wrong cuz I'm always
right you know what I mean and so it's
going to happen so how do you get them
to get together and it takes gentleness
you have to speak to to them gently
because they would like to fight about
it to show you that they are the right
ones it's like somebody comes to you for
counseling right somebody everybody
probably nearly everybody here had
somebody in counseling they always come
to you thinking they're the right ones
and the other one needs to be
corrected and the truth is is usually
both need correction okay so the fruit
of the spirit of gentleness is essential
for unification for restoration and then
finally it's essential for confession
gentleness is essential for the
Christian worker uh if he's going to be
confessing Jesus in front of others 1
Timothy 6: 11 and 12 listen to the way
it reads it but you oh man of God flee
these things and pursue righteousness
godliness Faith love patience gentleness
all those are Essential by the way but
gentleness is the one I'm focusing on
right now verse 12 fight the good fight
of Faith that's what I was looking for I
wanted a good fight fight the good fight
of Faith lay hold on eternal life to
which you were also called and have
confessed the good confession listen to
where you confess it and the presence of
many witnesses so yeah you confess Jesus
in front of the church but if you think
that's all it means when if they'll
confess me before men I'll confess you
before my father oh no no no no no
that's just the beginning it's
confessing
Christ to people who need to hear about
Christ see the
unbelieving they don't really want to
hear that I mean you y'all know that I
mean you watch enough TV you know the
unbelieving out there really don't want
to hear about Jesus they don't want to
hear about your faith in Jesus in fact
the unbelieving really want to fight I
mean y'all have seen enough Talking
Heads on TV you've seen them be ugly to
each other they want to fight but one
who is spirit filled desires to be
gentle with those needing to hear your
confession of Faith before them and they
don't need a sermon as much as they need
to hear your confession of Faith they
need to hear your
conviction and you can't do that in an
effective way if you're not going to be
gentle with it if you're nasty about it
and it's all preaching at them what they
must do rather than what you did and how
it affected you and why you believe in
Jesus you're not going to have much of
effect but if you will confess that way
listen to 2 Timothy 2 and verse 24 and
as the servant of the Lord must not
quarrel this again is people who are
trying to do ministry a servant of the
Lord must not
quarrel but be gentle to
all able to teach
patient so if we're going to ever win
anybody and we're going to speak a word
for the Lord Jesus we're going to
confess our faith before them we have to
do it in such a gentle way that yet it
teaches them but not to get into a
quarrel I've been in quarrels I have
never baptized anybody I was in a
quarrel
with I've baptized a whole bunch of
folks but I ain't baptized anybody I got
in an argument
with maybe you're different I don't know
of a single one I baptized that way the
fruit of the spirit of gentleness is
essential for confessing Jesus before
man so this is the lesson simply
put so these are the places where it's
ve specifically spelled out how
important this Spirit of gentleness is
and these are critical words works of
the church if we're going to restore
people to Faith who have wandered away
you got to do it with gentleness if
we're going to keep everybody United you
got to do it with gentleness and if
you're going to reach somebody for the
cause of Christ and confess your faith
in front of them you have to do it with
a spirit of
gentleness that's how it is how often do
we take a gentle path I'm telling you
I've struggled with this how often do we
take a harsh path I can be tough
it's a little harder for me to be sweet
if you don't believe that ask my family
I promise you which path do we take when
we
want another to be corrected for their
irresponsible and offensive
Behavior I like this
story Charles spon told the story of an
Archbishop who lived in a small house in
SC
SC I don't know if you know who Charles
Spurgeon is you probably do he had only
one employee and the employee tended to
be pretty
forgetful and he got up before the
bishop one morning decided to go fishing
but he didn't tell the bishop he was
going fishing and he took the only key
to the place where he lived and he
locked the bishop in his house and went
on fishing there's no way to get out of
the house no way so the the bishop Le
Leon was locked in the house all day
long and then he went fishing and he
forgot about it so he stayed longer and
he was out all day long
fishing and so late that evening he came
in with his key and unlocked it and came
in what do you think that Bishop said to
him what would you have said you locked
in your house where you can't get out
you can't do anything you're stuck there
all day day long because of his
negligence his
irresponsibility here's what he actually
said
John if you go out for a day's fishing
in the future please leave me the
key and that was
it let us sink
in how often do we take a g path how
often do we take a harsh path which path
do we take when we are the on stressed
out by life and the hardness of life now
I was just talking about when somebody's
irresponsible how do you handle it then
gently what do you do when you're
stressed and things go
wrong a woman was being tailgated by a
stressed out man on a busy
Street suddenly the light ahead of her
turned yellow just in front of her now
she did the right thing she stopped
right there at the crosswalk but she
could have probably beaten it you ever
been in that situation where you
probably could beat it and you know once
you get your nose in the intersection
they can't give you a ticket right and
so she could have probably beat it then
but she chose to
stop and she did the problem was that
the man behind her that was tailgating
her the whole time hit the roof and hit
his horn wide open and just kept beeping
it and he screaming in
frustration and so uh you know he had
missed his opportunity to get through
that
intersection and as he was in mid rant
he heard a
tap on his
window and he looked up and it was an
officer of the
law and he was very s serious looking
when he's looking at
him the officer ordered him to get out
of his
car he had him put his hands up he
searched him he handcuffed him he placed
him in the back SE the patrol car and he
didn't explain anything to
him 30 minutes pass he sits in the back
of the patrol car for 30 minutes while
the officer is on the radio talking back
and forth and looking at his
computer what do you think he came back
and said to that man here's what he
actually
said I'm very sorry for this
mistake I pulled up behind your car
while you were blowing your horn
flipping off the lady in front of you
and cursing a Blue Streak at her I
noticed then the choose life license
plate I noticed what would Jesus do
bumper
sticker I noticed follow me to Sunday
school bumper sticker and the chrom
plated fish emblem on the trunk so
naturally I just assumed that you had
stolen the
car gentleness is not perfected in US
without the work of the fruit of the
spirit we need to
determine to change and allow the spirit
to lead us to guide us perfect us
gentleness
begins like an unbroken
horse you ever heard of a gentle horse
you ever ridden a gentle
horse you ridden a gentle horse people
don't ride horses anymore maybe you had
never ridden a horse I've ridden a horse
I've ridden a stallion one all that
gentle I've ridden a gentle horse too
okay I've nearly been kicked and i'
almost been bit bunch of times so no so
riding a gentle horse it's a wonderful
thing they do what you say they they
work with you let me tell you something
about a gentle horse they can kick your
brains out a gentle horse yeah they can
they just don't they have the ability
they have the power to kick your brains
out but they will not do it they will
not hurt you they will not do anything
to you you see gentleness
begins when you're
unbroken but it takes hold when you are
broken Psalm 51:17 the sacrifices of God
are a broken Spirit a broken and a
contrite heart these oh God you will not
despise so if you really want to be
gentle you've got to be broken broen so
this idea of why ain't going to be
treated like that that's Pride that's
not
broken gentle people come from having
been
broken realizing I'm not all that in a
box of french
fries I'm not so special after all and I
failed in a lot of ways and when you
begin to Grapple with that you begin to
treat other people more gently
come broken to the Lord so if you want
to obey the gospel tonight that's great
we always want people to obey the gospel
but quite honestly too many people obey
the gospel that aren't ready they're not
coming broken they're coming proudly
they're coming proud of what they've
done I've done this rather than oh I
need
this I've
sinned I need to
repent I need to confess the
Lord if you come broken then later the
rock won't fall on you and Crush
you but if you refuse to come broken it
may just Crush you one day I want just
tell you straight up I'm not good at
this I am flat out not good at
gentleness I'm not I wish I was I want
to be good at gentleness but I am not I
have hurt many many
many many people I've heard them when
I'm preaching I've heard them in our
conversations in my office I've heard
them on the street I've heard them just
talking to people I will tell you what I
think and I will tell you in no
uncertain terms and anybody's around me
very long no that's pretty much true I'm
not as gentle as I should be you know
that doesn't mean that's right that
means that's
wrong and I need to let the spirit of
God come over me more but maybe some of
you are there maybe you're the ones that
get mad when the street lights don't
turn right or the person in front of you
doesn't do the perfect thing or maybe
you're not you have no problem in
telling somebody
off and you may think that that's a sign
of
strength but it's not the sign of
strength is being Meek and Mild when
people are
ugly if you want to come come though
we're always invitations open if you
need to repent of your sins confess in
the Name of Christ if there's something
more serious going on we're always
available to try to help you I hope that
we'll all make an effort to let the Holy
Spirit put some gentleness in our heart
come if you need to while we stand and
while we sing
