when I was a boy I had a teacher who
happened to have a broken pencil
sharpener one of those electric guys and
so I took it upon myself to take it
apart and fix it and bring it back to
her and she praised me for this she said
and I remember this she said you're wise
for helping me out and fixing
that and I'll be honest I really let
that go to my head
so a little while later I was bored as
little boys are and In My Father's
Office unable to go anywhere so I
decided to disassemble everything within
Arms
Reach I saw his pens so I took those
apart that offered no challenge so I
looked at his desk fan and I thought I
could take that apart so I did took that
apart and
then I looked and I saw and I thought to
myself look here is tape what do hinder
me from assembling these items
so I did I took the pen guts and I
attached them to the shaft of the fan
made it real tight and in my
head I imagine I had just created the
world's largest doodle pen do you guys
remember those doodle pens you know the
wobbly pens and I thought I was going to
hold up a piece of paper to that and it
was going to make some Doodles and I was
going to show that off to my dad he'd be
so impressed with my wisdom so filled
with that image in my head I sent it to
full
power and in the next moment I noticed
three things the first was it was making
a really cool
sound the second thing I noticed is that
the pens didn't stay in the center like
I imagine they would they bent and
folded out into a blur of motion a
little
concerning the third thing I noticed is
that these mystical lines of color were
forming on my hands and on my father's
desk and on his papers and his computer
and the
walls had in fact not created a doodle
pen I had turned my father's office into
a
spirograph some some piece of Modern Art
and this may shock you he was not
impressed with my
wisdom I
know so here's the thing you I tell you
that story because you might think that
I might have learned something from that
you know been humbled a little bit you
know gone through life looking at things
and with a different perspective you'd
be
wrong I've spent most of my life
pretending trying to fake it till I make
it and uh behaving as if I have a wisdom
that I never really acquired I thought
it would just come with time you know
when you get older that's when you get
wisdom that's teeth it's a different
thing so I was going to make a lesson
about how to be wise for tonight but the
more I studied the more I prayed the
more I realized I'm
unqualified so instead I'll give you a
lesson that I do feel comfortable
giving um how to be
foolish
yeah so this is probably a good
opportunity to say thank you to the
elders for letting me speak tonight I
think you're very
brave um
and some of you may be thinking I don't
need this lesson perhaps you consider
yourself already an expert in
foolishness but uh you might want to
hold on because I'm not only from
Florida I'm from Alabama as well that
counts as a double major I've checked
those credits do
transfer so here we go three simple
steps to become foolish like me step one
Elevate
yourself this may seem obvious to you
guys who said hey watch this and climb
something tall that's not what I'm
talking about
although technically accurate that's not
what I'm saying all you have to do here
and it's actually pretty simple look in
the mirror and think that person's kind
of got it figured
out just just look at yourself and think
yeah maybe they're a little bit above
average that's
it so you
see the foolish Elevate ourselves in our
own eyes but the wise don't see
themselves as is wise so let's take a
look at the Bible yes there's Bible
there's this is a sermon Proverbs 26:12
says do you see a person wise in their
own eyes there's more hope for a fool
than for them
o let's take a look at Isaiah
5:21 it puts it another way saying woe
to those who are wise in their own eyes
and shrewd in their own sight now here's
the thing I've seen these verses I've
read them dozens of times but I've
always imagined that it said the word
wisest do you see a man who is wisest in
his own eyes I always imagined that this
is about that guy you know the one the
one who rolls in and tells everybody how
to do their job the guy who's super
smart or at least thinks he is the one
who's thinks he's the best he's the
smartest because we all want to hate
that guy so of course the verse is about
that guy I don't have a problem um but I
never said wises
turns out this verse it's talking about
me
so I have literally thought to
myself I'm not wise in my own eyes I'm
too smart for that
literally but here's the thing if you
look at the average IQ of the United
States what may surprise you is that
we're not even among the top 20 of
countries but if you survey Americans
and they've done done this a number of
times most of us think we're above
average in fact 65% or more of us
believe we are above average
intelligence now I'm no
mathologist but that's not how averages
work should be 50% of us think we're
above average and 50% believe we're
below average
right that's not how we think we tend to
have this desire to believe that we've
arrived we've attained something we've
gone to college we've gone to school we
have some wisdom and in fact we consider
ourselves above
average you know sometimes we think of
to ourselves I don't need to go out and
get wisdom I've got wisdom at home
meanwhile wisdom at home is a stack of
podcasts and documentaries and you know
but that's mine it's my wisdom so I
don't need to go out and get any more
right so we foolish look at ourselves in
the mirror and we think we're more than
we
are we foolish Elevate ourselves not
only in words but we also Elevate
ourselves by
boasting but the wise don't do that so
let's take a look at James
3:13-15 who is wise in understanding
among you by his Good Conduct let him
show his works in the meekness of wisdom
the meekness of
wisdom but if you have bitter jealousy
and selfish ambition in your hearts do
not boast
and be false to the truth this is not
the wisdom that comes from above but is
Earthly unspiritual demonic for where
jealousy and selfish ambition exists
there will be disorder in every vile
practice I feel like in Corporate
America which I've been in for a while
we have this tendency to believe that
I'm just doing the best for my family
right now just doing the best for us or
maybe I'm just doing the best for my
team or maybe I'm just doing the best
for my company you know there's nothing
wrong with skewing the numbers a little
bit overselling our product making
things sounds a little bit better than
they are you know that that's okay
because I'm just doing the best for my
family my group my company
whatever we don't see that as selfish
ambition we don't see the Fallout of
what we're doing we don't see how whe
this is going to affect competition we
don't have see how this affects other
companies other groups
the wise are Meek and don't boast like
that they don't use lies they're not
always trying to get ahead of the
competition but we foolish we Elevate
ourselves we
boast and we do it by any means
necessary even if that means lying to
ourselves by looking in the mirror and
saying we're above average or lying in
our
work so if you're able to elevate your S
as I have um it'll make it easier to get
to the next
step ignore
others
so I had to drop my wife off at the
airport a while ago and uh I've done
this a number of times I've dropped
people off at the airport so many times
I knew the plan you know I go in help
her check her bags I go exactly to the
right place I'm like here's your gate
you know we say our goodbyes I send her
through security I wave and then I turn
around and I proceed to spend the next 2
and 1 half hours pretending I know where
my car
is now guys if you've ever been there
you know the tricks the tricks where you
pretend like you're not lost and you
meant to turn around I did all of those
tricks you know the one where you tie
your shoelaces till everybody passes
then then go the other way or they all
look at the time I need to go this way
and do the thing or you know oh look
somebody forgot something I got to turn
around and go this way so I did all of
those tricks I ran out so I decided okay
fine enough is enough I need to go to
the information desk not the help desk I
don't need help the information desk
specifically I need the information of
where I left my vehicle so I speak to
the lady and as soon as the conversation
starts a film crew
arrives I didn't know they needed to
shoot you know commercials for the
airport but apparently that's a thing
and they find my conversation with the
information lady super
interesting and I understand why it
sounds like she's talking to Lassie
she's like what' you see boy a blue sign
or a red
sign did you see a trolley or was there
a walkway that
moves and I'm I'm I'm dying inside and
I'm thinking well if I call the car in
as stolen will the police just bring it
to me
they're like no they'll they'll see the
video footage and they'll see this crazy
man walking around the airport like a
lunatic that won't work what how much
would it cost if I just bought another
car that looks like the old one would my
wife
notice so here's the thing we foolish
tend to ignore others but the
wise they ask for
help I know so let's take a look at
James 1 15 there's many scriptures on
how the w ask for help but this one I
feel like is the most poignant if any of
you lacks wisdom you should ask God who
gives generously to all without finding
fault and it will be given to you so
wise people actively ask for wisdom I
cannot tell you how many times in my
life I should have been praying for this
instead of something thing I really
really wish I prayed for this more often
Luke 2:52 says and Jesus increased in
wisdom and in stature and in favor with
God and man so even Jesus himself spent
time collecting wisdom in
Jerusalem if it's okay for Jesus then
maybe it's okay for the rest of
us so we foolish ignore people by not
asking for help and not listening but
the wise listen let's take a look at
Proverbs
12:15 the way of the fool is right in
his own eyes but a wise man listens to
advice perhaps not wandering around the
airport aimlessly for hours Proverbs
13:1 says a wise son hears his father's
instruction but a scoffer does not
listen to rebuke sorry Dad Proverbs 19
verse 20 says listen to advice and
accept instruction that you may gain
wisdom in the
future man I wish I'd listened
more so we foolish ignore others by not
asking for help and we tend to have this
feeling that we know
better but the wise listen and because
they listen they speak
less Proverbs 10: 19 says when words are
many sin is Not absent but he who holds
his tongue is
wise Proverbs 18:2 says a fool takes no
pleasure in understanding but only in
expressing his
opinion I could make a joke about social
media right now but it's a bit on the
nose right I mean we all know if you
couldn't comment back and express your
opinion those platforms would go away
tomorrow so here's the thing I don't
talk a lot so I felt like pretty good
reading those scriptures uh but when I
do talk I tend to talk over people um my
favorite part of every conversation is
the part where I get to share some
wisdom
and when I look back on a conversation
sometimes that's the part I remember oh
I remember that conversation it was so
good I said this and then I think what
did they say I have no
idea Proverbs 29:20 says do you see a
man who is Hasty with his words there is
more hope for a fool than him so here's
a depressing game you can play next time
you're at church or a social Gathering
or maybe a work
meeting count how many times you
interrupt other
people it's not a fun game but it is
informative so we foolish tend to ignore
other
people by not asking for help not
listening talking over them expressing
our own opinions but the wise don't do
any of that and you might think these
are very unkind things to do this is not
a peaceful way to communicate and you'd
be right and that brings me to the next
next
point the wise make
peace in James 3:1 17-18 it says but the
wisdom from above is first pure then
Peaceable gentle open to reason full of
mercy and good fruits impartial and
sincere and the Harvest of righteousness
is sown in Peace by those who make peace
in other words foolish people like me
are so eager to fight with you on
words but the foolish will tend to
listen and do everything they can to
make
peace
so if you elevate yourself it becomes
much easier to ignore others you don't
need help you will speak over other
people you'll never need to hear them
out because you've already elevated
yourself to the to the point where you
believe they're a little bit beneath you
you don't need to make peace with those
people because again they're beneath
you so now you're ready for the final
step to be foolish don't look back hash
no regrets
um wisdom is not simply intelligence or
knowledge we all know that wisdom is
also experiment experience so for
example if I'm lose if I if I've lost my
Fone I know that in order to find it I
need to look at all of the flat surfaces
around my house but wisdom is knowing
that I should also check inside the
fridge because of that one
time I still don't know why I left it
there but that's wisdom knowing that I
should also check that
place wisdom is realizing perhaps that
maybe I shouldn't be trying to invent
things with other people's office
equipment
um so we foolish people don't tend to
look back but the wise learn from their
mistakes so let's look at Proverbs 26:1
it says like a dog that returns to his
vomit is a fool who repeats his folly
that's a really gross illustration uh
but it's right on the nose here's
another one uh this reminds me of
college when I just couldn't get it in
my head which soap to use in the
dishwasher and I remember my roommates
just thought I was strangely obsessive
about cleaning the floor um so we
foolish don't look back and learn from
our mistakes
because it makes us feel stupid so why
would we do
that so we foolish don't
learn we let alone the mistakes of
others uh but the wise learn from
history so this is a trap so let's let's
take a deep dive into this one if we all
compare ourselves as somewhat part of
the human experience and if all human
wisdom exists in humans well well then
we all look at the current time as the
wisest we tend to think of ourselves as
wise because of course we know more than
the previous generation right because
that's how that's how technology works
that's how knowledge Works we're all we
all feel a little wiser than the last
generation Matthew 23: 29 through 36
Jesus addresses this he says to the
Pharisees see in this in this section
he's calling them blind fools and then
down in verse 29 he says you build tombs
of the prophets and decorate the
monuments of the righteous saying if we
had lived in the days of our fathers we
would not have taken part with them in
the shedding of blood of the prophets in
other words they believed that they
would have been on the right side of
history that they would have done better
than their fathers
did Jesus continues he says therefore I
send you prophets and wise men and
scribes some of whom you will kill and
crucify and some you will fog in your
synagogues and persecute from town to
town so Jesus is telling them no
actually you wouldn't be on the right
side of History because you aren't right
now you're literally about to make all
the same mistakes they did just in new
and inventive
ways so we foolish don't really look
back to history to
learn we use history as a tool to
continue to elevate
ourselves and the sad result of that is
that we end up repeating
it so that brings me to the final
and that that God also contains wisdom
then here's the thing all of human
wisdom is way at the beginning of that
scale and God is way on the other end of
that
scale so that's the
lesson if we want to be foolish we
Elevate ourselves we ignore others and
we don't look back real simple but if we
don't want to be foolish
we will remember that God
exists there's no need to be dishonest
and Elevate ourselves because we're all
at the very beginning of
wisdom we will know that we are foolish
and we won't ever ignore other potential
sources of
wisdom everyone has some and I need
it if we know that we're foolish we'll
always look back to correct ourselves
to learn from
history we have to see ourselves as an
empty
vessel then we'll have a reason to
actually go to the
well and by that I mean The Well of
Living Water Jesus Christ only then will
we be able to hear what he says only
then will we be able to believe because
we will have lowered ourselves and we
won't be ignoring the
message only then can we confess not in
our own deeds in our own
Majesty but in the fact that he is
Lord then we have the opportunity
finally to look back at our pasts with
Clarity and realize that there are many
things we need to repent
of then finally if we ask for it God
will give us wisdom which will drive us
to do pure good things pure acts like
baptism and after
baptism we can arise to live as children
do do you remember being a child do you
remember being an empty vessel just
thirsty for information for knowledge
for
wisdom pray with
me dear
God I am so
sorry I'm so sorry for all the times
that I or or
we elevated
ourselves all the times that I looked at
others as
lesser every time that I
ignored what was being taught to me
forgive me
Lord and for all the times that I
ignored the
messages written in the past all the
times that I ignored my previous
mistakes and did not correct I'm sorry
sorry
Lord please forgive
me and help me help us Lord
tonight to seek your wisdom please just
give us your wisdom help us to seek
peace with everyone not just those who
we agree with help us to learn to be
meek to be
quiet to speak only the right things
this we ask in Jesus name
amen
