you know the top negative news facts are
these 95% of media headlines are
negative
95% negative reports catch 30% more
attention which pays the bills in the
advertising so if you're wondering why
news is so negative that's the reason
it's
guaranteed to get you watch ing
26.7% exposed to negative news will
develop anxieties about those
news whether it's a
war or whether it's terrorist
attacks it can make you anxious about
life 63% of those 12 to 18 years old say
watching the news makes them feel bad
well I'm 66 and makes me feel bad so I
don't think that's unique in our text I
think the Bible does some interesting
things I think the Bible the Holy Spirit
takes Pharaoh for example and Pharaoh
becomes like the Devil he's a
personification of the devil in many
ways he's a personification of what you
would call the Antichrist in the way he
deals with the people of God well in our
text Nebuchadnezzar is that Satan like
like person he is that Antichrist likee
person in this particular story and his
people that are following him are like
all what we would call all the Godless
worldly people of the world who would
dare stand against God's people like the
Philistines of old that would go against
the people of God so from that
perspective we as Believers differ
radically
from the world that's around us that
would support Godless worldly
thinking we view God differently than
they do we have very strong views of God
our God is
alive that's what we read over and over
again Daniel 3:1 17 Our God whom we
serve is not was but he is Gen genis
15:1 I am your I am your shield and your
exceeding great reward that's what he
said to Abram in Exodus 3 and: 6 I am
the god of your father the god of
Abraham the god of Isaac and the god of
Jacob but now our God also is Almighty
there's nothing outside the scope of his
power Daniel 3:17 Our God whom we serve
is able he says they say that they
believe that we say that we believe it
Genesis
18:14 is anything too hard for the Lord
that's what an angel said Abraham and
Sarah in Luke 1:37 with God nothing will
be impossible it's the only reason that
you can be saved is because nothing is
impossible quite honestly you could not
be saved if God didn't virtually
accomplish the impossible that is making
his holy son into sin so that those of
us who are in sin could be made holy
that is an impossible thing but God
pulled it off anyway our God is the
Arbiter he is the judge of all the Earth
Daniel 3:17 Our God whom we serve is
able and he will Deliver Us from your
hand oh King one way or the other they
were going to be out of the hand of the
king that day Jeremiah 15: 211 I will
deliver you from the hand and of the
wicked now those are promises that
basically apply to you and me even to
this day in 2 Corinthians 1:10 who
delivered us from so great a debt and
does Deliver Us in whom we trust that he
will still deliver us I love the three
ways it says there he says he's
delivered us he does Deliver Us and he
will deliver us I love that but what if
the Godless world around Us in all their
Godless views because they've kind of
they may believe in God I mean let's be
honest in the United States of America
about 80% of the population say they
definitely believe in God if you go into
some rural community it's going to be in
the 90 percentile but if you count all
the big cities areas it's probably in
the 80 something percentile out of that
about 60% of the population go to church
kind of every down then okay then may
not be members but they'll go they go to
funerals weddings and then occasionally
visit with somebody at church but the
actual number of people who actually
kind of go on a regular basis have been
and still remain even as a result of
covid somewhere around 40% of the
population go to church that can that's
varied anywhere from 39 to 45% since
they've been keeping records since
before World War I so I mean that's
pretty consistent statistic so if you're
worried about it because Co run people
off that's not mean had run everybody
off so about 40% of the population but
those who are very consistent Like You
Who Come on Sunday night we're looking
at somewhere in the 20 percentile of it
about 20 to 25% of the
population but what if the Godless
worldviews that stand in opposition to
how we think and how we believe about
God what if it started threatening
us what if it started threatening harm
to us in our
ways what if you're just going through a
really hard time can you maintain your
faith in a God Like We believe in this
alive Almighty Arbiter of our faith will
you maintain your faith anyway no matter
what I mean let's just think about
Shadrach M and bino just for a second
they had left their country been taken
away they had probably been
emasculated they are serving now in a
foreign country no hope of a future
probably to go back have no control over
their lives but they've been lifted up
to a position but now they're being
threatened because they won't knuckle
under and do what they're
doing would you remain faithful in that
situation can you maintain your faith
when the whole world stands against you
you see that may be the ultimate faith
of Christianity
that may be I hope it's not I don't
think it will be but it could be right
now sometimes you feel that way though
don't you sometimes you feel like
everybody's against what we believe I
don't think that's true but it sometimes
feels that way so can you still give
thanks for everything and in everything
even at Thanksgiving when you're feeling
that way when you feel oppressed when
when your life is scaring you when
things are going wrong in your life can
you do it can we still give thanks
thanks when the world hates us and I
think the answer to that is yes and this
story speaks to that okay so I want to
look at three little points that's it
that will be done tonight three Faithful
Men declare three truths but if not
Hallelujah anyway number one but if not
Hallelujah anyway for we do not serve
their influences let's just read through
if you've got your Bible I encourage you
to read we going to read Daniel 3 much
of what was read a moment ago but we're
going to kind of jump around a little
bit verse four is where I'm going to
pick up then a heral cried aloud to you
it is commanded oh peoples Nations and
languages that at that time you hear the
sound of the horn the flute the harp the
Li and the salery in Symphony with all
kinds of music you shall fall down
worship the gold image that King
Nebuchadnezzar has set up now by the way
just for those of you who like to study
this kind of thing one of the
interesting things about why it's
believed not that it can be proven but
one of the reasons it's believed that
the Jews did not have instruments of
Music in their synagogue worship is
because of this kind of thing it was so
dominant and so much of it in paganism
that they wanted to be very different
from paganism and they never used it in
their synagogue worship and even what
they did use they used only at Temple uh
literally at the temple when there were
special events verse six and whoever
does not fall down and worship shall be
cast immediately into the mid midst of a
burning fiery furnace verse 7 so at that
time when all the people heard the sound
of the horn the flute the harp the liar
in Symphony with all kinds of music all
the peoples Nations and languages fell
down and worshiped the gold image which
King Nebuchadnezzar had set up but what
if the Godless world view started
threatening harm to our
waves remember remember and be thankful
here's the thing you need to think on
their popular ways and by the way they
their ways are more
popular their popular ways are not
ours it doesn't matter how they vote it
doesn't matter who wins elections it
doesn't matter about the surveys so
often well you're in a minority doesn't
matter you're thinking wrongly when
you're concerned about whether or not
you fit
in huge rallies make no difference it
does not affect our faith Exodus 23:2
you shall not follow a crowd to do
evil the way I've looked at it all My
Views are
radical compared to the way the world
thinks right now I have no views that
aren't radical or
rightwing everything I believe is
mocked so if we respond to the popular
ways then we need to not do that anymore
for we do not
serve their influences we do not serve
their influences so when you feel like
you're left out Hallelujah
anyway the next
lesson oh good somebody's changed it for
me tonight but if not Hallelujah any
anyway for we do not serve their
ideas we don't serve not only are we not
going to succumb to their pressures
because you know they're going to run a
survey and then they're going to say oh
only the radical extremist over here
only the extremist go to church all the
extremist okay and so they try to push
you into it but we don't serve their
ideas Daniel chapter 3 beginning of
verse 8 now therefore at that time
certain Cal came forward and accused the
Jews just like them Christians are being
accused today they spoke and said to the
King Nebuchadnezzar oh King live forever
you Old King have made a decree that
everyone who hears the sound of the horn
the flute the harp the Li and the salery
and Symphony I don't know why it keeps
repeating that with every little thing
but it does the same thing with all the
important people too uh in Symphony with
all kinds of music she'll fall down and
worship the gold image and whoever does
not fall down in worship shall be cast
in the midst of a burning fiery furnace
there are certain Jews whom you have set
over the Affairs of the province of
Babylon now I I think it is interesting
to note that anti-Semitism has been
around a long time do you pick up on
this that whatever Jews thought or
believed have always been the
enemy well we're the group with them now
shadra M Ando these men O King have not
paid due regard to you so they've
insulted you King they do not serve your
Gods so they're the so it is an insult
to the gods it's more of an insult to
the king they do not serve your gods or
worship the gold image which you have
set up then Nebuchadnezzar enraged and
fury gave the command to bring Shadrach
mishik and so that they brought
these men before the king and
Nebuchadnezzar spoke saying to them is
this true Shad me going B and go that
you do not serve my gods or worship the
gold image which I have set up you see
this is a personal offense here verse 15
now if you are ready at the time I'm
going to give you another chance if
you're ready to hear the sound of all
these just instruments with all kinds of
music and you shall fall down and
worship the image which I have set up
good okay I'm not happy with you but
good we're not going to throw you in the
burning fire but if you do not worship
you shall be cast immediately into the
midst of the burning fiery furnace and
who is the god who will deliver you from
my hands notice emphasis it's my God's
my image and who's going to deliver you
from me but what if the Godless
worldviews start threatening harm to our
ways just remember and be thankful and
this is a simple concept their leaders
beliefs are not ours you say oh no no no
I I don't care who the leader of this
country is I don't care who's in
Congress listen to me almost none of
them I agree with and just sit and just
think a minute almost none of of them
almost none of the leaders of the world
do I agree with I don't believe like
they believe it is not my thinking and
if you're trying to fit into their
thinking I don't think you're thinking
straight here's the thing so their
leaders beliefs are not ours the wealthy
make the decisions of the world and I'm
not talking about people with a couple
hundred, in the bank like some of you
folks I'm talking about the wealthy
billionaires the elite the scientists
don't agree with us they're trying to
figure out the science is built this way
a plus b equals c right they don't
believe a plus b plus a miracle equals c
they don't believe that so they don't
use that that's not their thinking so
they try to explain everything in a
natural way I love science I think it's
really neat I think it works in a lot of
stuff but it doesn't work on faith it
just doesn't work on faith so I don't
really care what the scientists say
about what I believe period about what I
believe I don't care and I love science
and I don't care what they believe and I
don't think you should either I don't
care what Hollywood says it's not
important to me I don't care if every
actor in the Gill stood up and said you
shouldn't go to church anymore we don't
listen to them right it doesn't matter
politicians the media it doesn't matter
they do not affect our faith in fact
Isaiah 5 verse 20 says woe to those who
call evil
good and good
evil listen to me we're not in
trouble they
are who put Darkness for light and light
for
Darkness who put bitter for sweet and
Sweet for bitter we read Psalm this
morning Psalm 100 you remember that uh I
think you need to remember God made us
we didn't make
us so no matter what they say you didn't
evolve that would be us making
us we didn't make us we're his
handiwork period and it doesn't fit into
their scope I'm sorry it doesn't fit
into their scope well we don't fit into
their scope so we respond to the
leadership's belief by this we do not
serve your
ideas we don't serve your ideas
Hallelujah anyway number
next but if not Hallelujah anyway for we
do not serve their images just keep
reading we'll read verses 16 through 18
here and I'll be done reading in Daniel
it says Shadrach mesek and abedo
answered and said to the king oh
Nebuchadnezzar we have no need to answer
you in this
matter if that is the case what you just
said it's going to happen if that is the
case our God whom we serve is able to
Deliver Us From The Burning fiery
furnace and he will Deliver Us from your
hand O King one way or the other Verse
18 but if
not that's what I want us to adopt but
if
not but if
not but if not but if not let it be
known to you oh King that we do not
serve your Gods nor will we worship the
gold image which you have set up I'm not
interested in
capitulating not interested don't want
to have a discussion about it I'm not
moving I'm not changing I'm not giving
up what I believe it's not
happening those people who feel that way
are doing things they're dancing with
the scriptures not dancing with the
scriptures I'm believe what it says amen
amen walls whatever it says that's what
but what if the Godless worldviews start
threatening harm on us because we won't
capitulate their Pagan images are not
our images what do you mean Pagan images
they can put a logo on their t-shirt all
they want didn't mean I'm going to have
to wear
it they can have an upside down Rainbow
on their shirt all day long I'm not
wearing an upside down Rainbow on my
shirt period ain't happening not
happening uh the letters I don't have to
say the letters I don't have to adapt to
the pronouns I don't have to do any of
that I'm not trying to be political I'm
trying to say a truth here their
placards are not our placards their
truths are not our truths our truths are
in the word of God don't let them affect
your faith that's what I'm saying don't
believe what they believe because we
don't believe what they believe Romans
1: 23 325 says and change the glory of
The Incorruptible God I mean God Is So
magnificent so big so vast that the
Universe he speaks into existence he
doesn't look like anything we've seen
because he's invisible he's invisible
you can't say what he looks like he's
the invisible God but the glory of The
Incorruptible God cannot be made into an
image and change the glory of the The
Incorruptible God into an image made
like corruptible man so we make a statue
that makes us that's God no and birds of
course not I mean look at Egypt where
they put a bird head on somebody's body
and four-footed animals and creeping
things so they worshiped even the
scarabs in in Egypt verse 24 therefore
God also gave them up to uncleanness so
listen to what happens when you give up
the God you become unclean you just
start doing nasty stuff
that's what you do that's your life
you'll go to nasty stuff and in the lust
of their hearts to dishonor their bodies
among themselves they can't be filled
with enough of the nastiness they want
to do verse 25 who exchang the truth of
God for a lie and worship and serve the
creature rather than the Creator who
blessed forever amen so we respond to
the Pagan images and I have to call them
they're pagan they're not based anywhere
in the scriptures these things that are
being put in front of us we do not serve
your images when you're not serve your
en images not going to wear it not going
to put up with
it so we're not going to put it on
outside we're not going to put a upside
down flag up in the church building or
on the outside of the building so that
everybody knows you're welcome here if
you think that way you're welcome here
if you think that way but we ain't
putting the flag
up it's not happening we want anybody
body to come we will not mistreat
anybody I don't care who they are or
what they believe we're not going to
mistreat people but you're not going to
make me bow down to that image not
happening not in a million years but if
not Hallelujah anyway even if it means
harm Hallelujah anyway amen hallelujah
anyway it doesn't matter so uh we don't
serve their influences well what if
everybody thinks that way and you're the
only one I'm going to be the fish
swimming Upstream amen I going to be
that little fish swimming Upstream until
the bear gets me Hallelujah anyway for
we do not serve their influences we do
not serve their ideas I don't think like
they think period on almost nothing when
it comes to stuff religious and
Hallelujah anyway well you're the odd
person out praise the Lord praise the
Lord and we do not serve their images so
we're not going to adopt those things
and and if that hurts people if it
drives people away it will have to drive
people away because they want to be more
worldly it reminds me whenever I find
church members that are wanting to do
that it reminds me of Israel before they
had a king we need a king we need a king
everybody else has a king we need a king
we need to be like the rest of the world
otherwise nobody's going to accept us
I'm not looking for acceptance except
from the Lord Jesus amen that's who I'm
looking for acceptance from I want to
get
my responsibility to fix all that it's
my responsibility to teach the truth
your responsibility teach the truth and
stand with the Lord amen so Hallelujah
anyway is actually a song and it's
reason it really inspired this a guy
named Matt Meyer and Chris lellan and
Gareth gilerson uh wrote this and and I
just want to read it to you I think it's
it speaks to a lot I'll find a way to
praise you from the bottom of my heart
cuz I think I'd rather strike a match
than curse the dark yeah I'll find a way
to thank you through the bitterness is
real and hard cause I'd rather take a
chance on Hope than fall apart I don't
think I'm ready to surrender to the dark
no even if my daylight never
Dawns even if my breakthrough never
comes even if I fight to bring you
praise even if my dreams fall to the
ground even if I'm lost I know I'm found
even if my heart will somehow
say hallelujah anyway yeah I hear a hym
of Triumph in the wilderness of my
lament in the lowlands or on the
mountaintops I won't forget all that
goodness that you have shown me the
promise that you have kept there's
better days on the horizon up ahead even
if my daylight never Doms even if my
breakthrough never comes even if I'll
fight to bring you praise oh even if my
dreams fall to the ground even if I'm
lost I know I'm found even if my heart
will somehow say hallelujah hallelujah
anyway oh come on
now let it
rise let it rise in the dark are the
wild oh my soul stands by if you got a
soul then sing and let it rise and let
it rise let it rise in the dark or the
wild oh my soul stands by if you've got
a soul then sing and let it rise don't
give in even if my daylight never
Dawns even if my
breakthrough never
comes even if I have to fight to bring
you
praise even if my my dreams all fall to
the
ground even if I'm lost I know I'm
found even if my heart will somehow
say hallelujah
anyway I hope that you will think about
that as you face your holidays because
it's so easy in my opinion to let the
negative so affect you that you can't
find a way to praise the Lord and we
talked about the devil just getting you
not to thank the Lord please don't let
that happen let all that negative
negativity outside stay
outside here's one place we can Praise
Him amen we can always praise and
giveing thanks anyway even if
everything's going wrong in my
life and I'm the one about to perish if
that's it tonight who knows right I
could be the one or you could be saying
what I'm saying right if I'm the one and
this is it I'm going to praise Him
Anyway amen I'm going to thank him
anyway and I'm going to find something
to thank him every day for even if the
entire world says you're crazy praise
the Lord
anyway because
ultimately they thought Jesus was a
charlatan do you remember oh you who
healed all these people come down from
the cross now will
believe oh yeah they thought he was all
a fake they think we're
fakes we're not
fakes we're the real
thing and it doesn't matter what they
say hallelujah
anyway so if you haven't given your life
to the Lord let's do it let's be the
real thing the thing that the Bible
speaks of a Christian to the end no
matter what the cost is no matter who
says ugly things about you we're going
to be Christians and serve him
Faithfully the rest of our days so if
you're willing to make that step and
repent of your sins confess the name of
Christ be baptized we do it in a little
bit here be probably cold water but
we'll be happy to take care of it and
you know if you're willing to do it what
difference does cold water make
so if you need to come come while we
stand and while we sing
