foreign
will instead be singing Standing on the
Promises
oh there we go
we're off to a good start
all right once you have it let us sing
find us together Lord bind us together
with chains that cannot be broken
bind us together Lord find us together
Lord bind us together with love
find us together Lord Find Us Together
We change that cannot be broken
bind us together Lord find us together
Lord Find Us together with love
three
good evening I was a little surprised
this morning when I saw my name on the
the youth-led roster but I guess Keegan
was basing it not on the date on my
birth certificate but my maturity level
so
we're gonna go ahead and uh
open up the service with her
dear Lord we thank you for this evening
we come to you humbled and
um excited to be here tonight we we
thank you for this Avenue that we have
that we don't deserve to have a direct
connection and communication with you
through prayer we
we thank you for giving us that option
uh and all that
we've been able to accomplish through
you through it dear God we pray that
you're with the the guys tonight
help uh calm their nerves a little bit
help them to to settle in to to praise
you the way that
you want to be praised a way that you'll
smile down on
dear God we we praise we go out through
and into our communities that we're an
example to those that may not believe or
maybe on the fence of believing and
and be a a shining spot in a in a dark
place dear God and
pray that we
we try to be an example and be just like
Christ as much as we can every day to
God we we thank you for this time again
and we pray as we go out through the
week that we could be the best we can be
Jesus name amen
thank you
all right our next song will be Standing
on the Promises
that can be found on page 347.
you have a hymn book
we'll be singing the verses
one through three
again that is verses one through three
Standing on the Promises of Christ
I'm Standing on the Promises of God
sending all the promises I cannot bear
when the howling storms have died appear
a sale by The Living Word of God I shall
Standing on the Promises of God
is
my sister
I'm Standing on the Promises of God
standing up in your promises
overcoming daily with the spirit sword
Standing on the Promises of God
because
received
I'm Standing on the Promises of God
tonight scripture reading will be found
in the book of Ephesians 4 1 for free
again that is Ephesians 4 1 4 3.
therefore I the prisoner of the Lord and
Paul implore you to walk in a manual
woven wolfy of the calling with which
you have been called with all humility
and gentleness with patience so
intolerance for one another in love be
diligent to preserve the unity of the
spirit in the bond of peace
good evening
hope that everybody has had a good
Sunday so far I must say one of my
favorite things about being in our own
building is having no time limit so it's
nice to know that no but um on a serious
note thank you to the odors thank you to
Keegan
um thank you to all those who allow for
these youth ledge services to be a thing
um I think back to my first lesson it's
been quite a while since I've been up
here to speak but I think back to my
first one and it's just these are such
an amazing thing that we do here to
allow these young people to get up and
to share the talents that they've been
practicing share the things that they've
been doing whether it be through Lads to
leaders on their own private time things
with their parents that they've been
preparing them for this is such a good
place to come and to get some experience
a little bit of a lighter crowd makes a
little bit easier so thank you guys very
much for this and I hope it's something
that we continue to do and and I you
know you guys are doing awesome and it's
such an encouragement to us to see you
guys up here as well
so with that if you would go to God with
me in prayers we begin this evening's
devotional
Lord God we just come to you now Lord
thanking you for this opportunity to
once again come here to meet Lord we
know that this building has been a long
time coming and we just thank you so
much for the ability for us to sit here
in these seats now and just to worship
you and give you all the praise God Lord
God we pray that you just help us to um
to be unified God just be one church and
to be one body through your son Lord and
that we might just continue to live a
life of Love towards one another and
towards encouragement and towards the
the building up of your kingdom Lord we
pray all this in your son's name Jesus
Christ amen
so with that our lesson tonight is going
to be talking about unification and what
seems to be a divisive world it's no
surprise that when we look around at the
world we feel that it's pretty much
filled with all sorts of divisiveness
just to run through a few topics that
kind of you know play into this and
nowadays is politics race gender marital
issues socioeconomic classes and even
church and religion
this breakdown begins with the
self-concept of me and my when we should
be focused on he and his
we are constantly bombarded by media
especially social media telling us that
we should be focused on ourselves and
the uh with the the term of self-care
thinking only about ourselves not about
those around us or what our self-care
might do to those that we come in
contact with it's not to say that we
shouldn't tend to our musical our mental
physical or emotional
um attributes of course we need to take
care of ourselves you know we're
commanded to do that by God as well but
we can't do that at the expense of other
people we can't do that at the expense
of our brothers and our sisters and we
can't do that at the expense of our
family
so what happens is is we see nowadays A
lot of people thinking that their words
are truth and that their opinions are
fact without wearing wanting to listen
to anything else that's given to them
not hearing both sides of the story but
rather shutting down the speech that
comes back and the the discourse between
people whether it be you know again
between all those mentioned in the list
above becomes very common to see people
and I'm sure we've all done it ourselves
spewing things that we are certain is
true that unfortunately turns out to not
be that way
when we do that we're simply giving back
into this divisive culture so thou then
I present a question how then could the
all-knowing God put such a daunting
command on his people to unify when it
seems nearly impossible in this world
today
this concept is nothing new from the
beginning of time humanity has wrestled
with separation and individuality on my
own
the first ever humans led to the
separation of God because of their own
self-servant
so we see a push among many Christians
and my faith is mine and between me and
Jesus alone or I have a personal walk in
a personal relationship with Jesus only
everything is between me and him I don't
need anything else
while avoiding church or the organized
institution of religion which I remind
you is the bride of Christ in the name
of it being corrupt or there's hypocrisy
or it's a place where you know it's just
those those people or even just pure
convenience yeah well
I could sleep in a little bit you know
I'll wake up and I'll say my prayers in
the morning
not to say that it's not important to
say your prayers or that we shouldn't
have a personal relationship with God of
course that's what we're asked to do and
of course that's how any relationship
works but at the end of the day this is
something more than just about me
so with that I would like to discuss
three short points on places in our life
that we can work to bring about deeper
unity in which in turn will encourage us
and will better us even more than just
focusing on ourselves ever could
the first point tonight that I want to
bring is unification through our faith
unification through our faith
if you look uh if you have your Bibles
open to Ephesians chapter 4 continuing
further down from the verses that were
just read by Neil Ephesians 4 4-6 reads
there is one body and one Spirit just as
also you were called in one hope of your
calling one Lord One Faith one baptism
one God and Father of all who is over
all and through all and in all
this here seems pretty clear that there
is not but one Faith there is one
scripture from which we get that faith
and um
you know it's not something that's up to
our own individual choosing
if you would like to turn to First
Corinthians 1 10 it reads now I exhort
you Brethren by the name of our Lord
Jesus Christ that you all agree and that
there be no divisions among you but that
you may be but that you be made complete
in the same mind and in the same
judgment
so not only is this something where we
are called to not have divisions to not
have separations between our number but
to be made complete we're told to have
Unity One mind and the same judgment
the same Discerning of these scriptures
that have been given to us by the
apostles and by the disciples and the
writers of this Bible
so we're called to be unified in our
faith and in the same mind and same
judgment this of course does not mean
that we all have to think the same that
everybody's going to have the exact same
outcome on every single point or that
there won't be individual differences in
our walks of Faith but that the roots of
our faith should be nourishing the same
tree and that comes back to of course
our Doctrine or what we believe and what
is our what we like to call Kingdom
issues we should be all sitting here on
the same plane whenever we come to these
issues because if not it's going to lead
to of course division
let me just to point number two which is
unification through our function
we're unified through our worship what
we are doing right now is a unifying act
between us
some examples of our course are singing
our prayers
communion I mean if you take apart the
the calm what are you left with
um it's easy to sing and be focused on
how I sound and Rex mentioned on this
this morning it's easy to you know am I
sounding okay am I making a good sound
instead of focusing on what's in our
heart what the words in our heart are
singing out to God we all know the verse
Ephesians 5 18-19 and do not get drunk
with wine for that is dissipation but be
filled with the spirit speaking to one
another in Psalms and hymns in spiritual
songs singing and making Melody to the
Lord in your heart
again this is speaking to one another
your singing is an encouragement to me
your singing and his encouragement to
all those around you it's an
encouragement to those who are unable to
be here and who are listening at home
what we do in our act of worship is an
encouragement to those who sit around us
further from there we also have that
it's easy to forget that communion is
this one act of us communally
acknowledging the sacrifice that God
made for us
and this is something that I try to do
whenever we go through communion but um
it's easy to to forget this I guess just
because of distance but I try to think
of this as a worldwide act it's very
easy to get caught up in my my time and
I'm I'm so glad that we're passing the
trays again because it makes it feel at
least to me a little bit more of that
communal act than just having a single
self-serve it makes it feel like that
family dinner of passing the meal and
and that um that really
I can't think of the word but the um
personal not personal the interconnected
um feeling through that but this isn't
something that stops here at Bell Shoals
or Creekside excuse me whenever we're uh
doing communion together there are
people thousands millions of people
worldwide partaking in this singular Act
of breaking bread and of drinking from a
cup in order to honor and to recognize
and to remember Christ's death and I
just I find that amazing that that this
has been instituted for so many people
for so long and yet we all do it
together and we all do it at one time
and it's something that that unifies Us
in that
if you look at the book of Acts chapter
2 and verse 41-42 of course this is uh
Peter speaking
um at the at the first at uh
right after Jesus had ascended back in
the the lesson he was giving so then
those who had received his word were
baptized and that day they were added
about three thousand Souls they were
continually devoting themselves to the
apostles teaching and fellowship into
the breaking of bread and to prayer
continually doing this to the apostles
teaching and this is 3 000 people added
I can't imagine what that day must have
been like to see that many people uh
believe after the the teaching but um
it's it's something where this this was
done together and this was done with the
mindset of of perseverance in it this
isn't a one and done you know okay we
had our communion for this week we said
our prayers for this week you know I'm
I'm good to go they were continually
devoting themselves to these teachings
to the breaking of bread into prayer
if you look at Matthew 26 verse 26 again
explaining more while they were eating
Jesus took some bread and after blessing
he broke it and gave it to the disciples
and said take eat this is my body
the first part gives it away there while
they were eating this was I mean I'm I
don't know about you guys but I I can't
do anything by myself to be quite honest
but I especially can't really eat by
myself I don't really like to go
somewhere and sit around and eat by
myself I like to be with people and and
eat among people and have conversation
and laugh and talk and it's it's a it's
a community of of friends and people
that I love and that's what's Happening
Here with Jesus and his disciples these
are his his closest you know Posse his
group this is the people that he
Associates with himself with the most
and not only that but this is at the end
of his ministry so this has been quite a
little bit of time a few years that
they've been together so they have a
good nice really strong connection with
each other and in that it is at
something so
you know between people so communal
eating a dinner a meal together
especially for them and and in this time
this this culture these meals were were
a lot of times symbolic lasted a long
time it was a time for them to be
together this is where he institutes the
Lord's Supper
finally the last point is unification
through our family
this is a kind of a double-sided coin
here because we should strive for Unity
within our homes as well as we should
strive for Unity within our church and
our church family
it said multiple times Paul mentions it
numerous times that we are all one body
in Christ I have quite a few verses on
this one to read through and I think a
lot of them are pretty self-explanatory
back in Acts chapter 4 verse 32 and the
congregation of those who believed were
of one heart and one soul and not one of
them claimed that anything belonging to
him was his own but that all those or
all things were common property to them
again I mean self-explanatory here one
heart one Soul this congregation viewed
themselves as nothing is mine but
everything is ours you know and and how
often do we have that mentality
you know it's it's easy today I worked
hard for this I put in the hours I did
the time I did the work I bought this
with my own money nope you know you can
look you can't touch can't no this is
mine it's very easy to get that I did
this for me mentality instead of what
God has blessed us with and then in turn
I can further bless others uh with the
same thing that God has blessed me with
um it's a tough tough concept but
obviously it's one to strive for
continuing um in the scripture Galatians
chapter 3 and verse 27 through 28.
for all of you who are baptized into
Christ have closed clothed yourselves
with Christ there is neither Jew nor
Greek there is neither slave nor free
man there is neither male nor female for
you are all one in Jesus Christ
again for all those you who are baptized
The church here is being spoken to we're
all one in Christ there's no division
that God sees in his mind when he looks
at us as his children outside of he sees
us as his children one in Christ
Ephesians 4 verses 11 through 16.
and he gave some as Apostles and some as
prophets and some as evangelists and
some as pastors and teachers for the
equipping of the Saints for the work of
service to the building up of the body
of Christ until we all attain to the
unity of the faith and the knowledge of
the Son of God to a mature man we are no
longer to be children oh excuse me to a
mature man to the measure of the stature
which belongs to the fullness of Christ
as a result we are no longer to be
children tossed here and there by waves
and carried about by every wind of
Doctrine by the trickery of men by
craftiness and deceitful scheming but
speaking the truth in love we are to
grow up in all aspects and to him who is
the head even Christ from whom the whole
body being fitted and held together by
what every joint supplies according to
the proper working of each individual
part causes the growth of the Body for
the building up of itself in love
so by being united we can overcome this
deceitful Doctrine false teachers
trickery of men
I cannot tell you how many times I'm
scrolling
excuse me scrolling through Instagram
Facebook Tech talk whatever social media
have you nowaday and you see these
videos of these
teachers come up or these you know
preachers as they would call themselves
come up and it just seems like every
single last thing that comes out of
their mouth is the complete opposite of
what the Bible is honestly saying
I mean it is astounding how many times
these these come up and it's not only
that it's astounding at how many people
you see sitting out in the crowds and
how many comments you see on these posts
and how many likes you see and how many
children that's come across that have
these social media applications and how
many young adults this has come across
and how many lost adults this has come
across that see these teachings and
believe and buy into them because of the
twisting and the manipulating and the
the using of scripture for own personal
gain whether it be money whether it be
the the fame whether it be the status
it's a scary thing that how often we see
this
and it's very very difficult to overcome
anything like this by yourself
no battle is won by an individual
but by a band
of people
Band of Brothers a band of sisters
a band of Christians
we are in a spiritual warfare that is no
doubt about it and it takes all of us
working together as one
to overcome and we can do that because
we're one in Christ and he's our head
so that we can also notice how
each individual is giving gifts to build
up the body again it says from the
bottom there him who has had even Christ
from whom the whole body being fitted
hoed together every joint that supplies
according to the proper working of each
individual part each individual part has
a purpose an arm without a rest of the
body is pretty useless
a head without arms legs and a torso is
pretty useless
we can't operate without using our gifts
together for good
it's easy to have a gift and keep it to
yourself I think about the talents uh
Parable and you know he kind of keeps it
to himself and and nothing really gets
much out of that but the people who sow
those talents out gain more if we sew
out our gift we'll gain more as a group
than if we keep it to ourselves
further from there I want to read a
verse in John 17 verse 20 through 23
says I do not ask on behalf of these
alone but for those also who believe in
me through their word that they may all
be one even as you father are in me and
I in you that they also may be in us so
that the world may believe that you sent
me the glory which you have given me I
have given to them that they may be one
just as We Are One i in them and you and
me that they may be perfected in unity
so that the world may know that you sent
me and loved them even as you have loved
me
so what I find really really cool about
this verse is
this is Jesus
praying to God
and if you look at the verses preceding
the ones that I just read he's
specifically praying for his disciples
and asking for them to be one and for
you know as he is in God and God is in
him basically repeating the same thing
about the disciples but what I find so
cool here is in starting in 20 I do not
ask on behalf of these alone but for all
those who also believe in me through
their word he is praying to God
specifically for you in this instance
for those who also believe in me through
their word
in that he continues on that in God he
and God are being one that we may also
be one with them through him well how is
that are we through him by being united
as his body by following his
Commandments by being added to the
church we are given this blessing that
he is praying to God on behalf of those
who believe in him and follow the words
of the disciples that were given to them
through Jesus
so with that I would like to conclude
that this this world does seem to be a
pretty
divisive world not really on board with
unity
you know of course the question always
begs is that the way that the world
really is or is that the what we're
we're given to be seen
you know it's it's very easy to get
wrapped up and in a very negative
headspace whenever you take in all kinds
of different media because
is it what we're actually looking at or
is it disguised to see what other people
want us to see I don't think that the
world is completely against Unity I
think people want Unity I think people
want peace I think people want to be
banded together and to be friends and to
be family and to to be close with one
another
but I don't think that they know how
because we've seemed to have strayed
from the teachings of the Bible
our spiritual walk was never designed to
be completely done by ourselves
it's very difficult if you've ever tried
to to do this walk by yourself it's very
very difficult to continue on the Devil
is a powerful powerful being and he's
very very smart and very very talented
at what he does because he's been doing
it for a very very long time and he's
not somebody that we should just blow
off because he will and does know how to
get to every single one of us so we need
this Unity we need this community to
work together
and we are in a unique position here as
God's Church
to help bring about this Unity to this
world to show them what they so
desperately want deep down and might be
suppressing
this Unity doesn't stop at Creekside it
doesn't stop at Florida or the USA it's
a worldwide gift that God has bestowed
and requires of his church and people
so if you are out there today and and
you would like to be a part of this
community if you would like to be a part
of something bigger than yourself
it's very simple God lays it plain Jesus
lays it plainly out in his gospel to
hear his word and believe it believe
what he has said
believe that he is the Son of God and
that he has risen
to confess those words be baptized
repent of your sins raise again a new
person and to continue on with him if
you are out there tonight and need
anything would like for us to pray with
you you can come up now as we stand in
as we sing
we're saying I know that my redeemer
lives
I know oh that my redeemer lives
if I know
free
I know I know that I remember this I
know I know each
time he is
I really Redeemer early
morning
Saving Grace
I know I know
I know I feel peace
my name is
a place prepare for me
but I know
I like he
is
fever
Maybe
if you're unable to partake in the
Lord's Supper this morning
um we invite you to meet Mr Hernandez in
the room next to the kitchen on your
right during the singing this next song
we also encourage you to come back once
the communion is done in there to come
back sing a couple more songs with us
our next song will be leaning on the
Everlasting Arms
what a fellowship
take us
what a blessing
blessed water peace
on the
lasting us
ing us
I have blessed
peace with my Lord
Kingdom
of the longer last
foreign
thank you for being here tonight I I
really want to say thank you because I
know that maybe sometimes you see oh the
youth are leading tonight and do I
already have to go
um but it's important that uh that
they're here at you here and and we
support the youth
um the scripture says train up a child
in the way so that when they get old
they will not depart we definitely need
service we need a men to step up and
these young guys are stepping up uh
they're coming to me now saying hey how
can we serve which is great I know maybe
some of you have had to serve in a
church of 10 people
uh when you're in that environment
Services is no longer democracy
it's required and uh I just love that
these guys are stepping up in an
environment where
it's pretty relaxed and I don't have to
sometimes but good on them so well done
uh thank you to Luke for speaking
tonight
I uh he does a lot of singing for us so
I wanted to get Luke up here to speak
and give him a chance to say a few
things always enjoy chatting to Luke
he's got an interesting brain so it's
good to hear from him thank you Luke and
uh sorry Austin I just chucked you in
there sorry
all right
um so let's go to our prayer list
