to get anything out of a
flint you use a
hammer and you hit it as hard as you
can and basically what you get out of a
flint rock is chips and a spark or
two to get water out of a
sponge you squeeze it and the harder you
squeeze it the more water you get out of
the
sponge to get honey out of a
honeycomb if it's truly full of honey
you don't have to do anything it'll just
eek out it'll drip on
out which one's
you are you the Flint you have to be hit
with a hammer and even then you don't
get much out of them all you get is few
Sparks and some chips a chip comes off
your shoulder because you're a little
bit irritated that anybody would dare
ask anything from you or are you a
sponge you're
full but if you're going to
give somebody's got to pressure you a
little bit squeeze you just a little bit
and then maybe that's what this lesson
you see is is a
squeeze or are you a
honeycomb whatever you
got it's just using out happy for you to
have
it that kind of describes us doesn't
it which one are we
under the patriarchal age they gave a
tithe they tithed out of all of their
increase Abel did it Genesis 4:4 says
and also he brought of the firstborn of
the flock and of their fat and the Lord
respected Abel in his offering I don't
know if you've ever noticed this that
little word there in there means that he
didn't bring one
lamb that's a plural form so he brought
many many lambs that day a
plurality Abraham in Genesis 14:20 that
was just made reference to we'll get
back to in a moment he gave him a tithe
or a tenth of
all that's the
record Jacob Genesis 28:22 says the
stone which I have set as a pillar shall
be God's house he' seen those angels
ascending and descending on that hill
and of all that you give me I will
surely give a tenth to you of what you
prosper
me that was the case under the
patriarchal age what was the case under
the mosaical age under the mosaical age
they gave again a tenth or a tithe
that's what the word means out of all
their increase Deuteronomy 14:22 we made
reference to this last week you shall
truly tithe all the increase Deuteronomy
26:12 laying aside all the tithe of your
increase Proverbs 3:9 puts it this way
using a different term but it's the same
thing honor the Lord with your
possessions when with the first fruits
of all your increase so that's your
increase the things that you receive
this year you'd say as patriarchal age
and the Mosaic age what about the
Christian age so to in the Christian age
we are to give out of our increase we
told uh 1 Corinthians 16:2 just cut into
the chases says on the first day of the
week let each one of you lay something
aside storing up as he may Prosper so if
you're not prospering you understand
that's where the giving comes from so if
you're in a bad way obviously you're
maybe one of the ones we need to
help in 2 Corinthians 9: 10 it says
it'll multiply the seed multiply the
seed you have sown and increase the
fruits of your Harvest so it's all about
that increase that we're supposed to
give out
of why might Jesus of Nazareth be
thought worthy of receiving or
giving why well Jesus approached that
subject himself in Matthew chapter 22 by
asking a question that they couldn't
answer in Matthew 22 uh: 42 through 45
he says what do you think about the
Christ they've been asking him all kinds
of questions let me let me ask you guys
a question he's saying what do you think
about the Christ the Messiah whose son
is
he who's this guy and they said well
he's got to be the son of David if he's
going to be the Messiah he's got to be
the king he's got to be a king so he's
got to be the son of
David verse 43 he said to them how then
does David in the spirit call him
Lord saying the Lord said to my Lord sit
at my right hand till I make your
enemies your foot stol I mean how can
your son if you're a king ever be your
lord it's a good question they couldn't
answer it verse 45 if David then calls
him Lord how is he his son now we know
because we know the scriptures now we've
been exposed so you probably all
understand this but they didn't Psalm
110 speaks to it very clearly Psalm 110
says the Lord said to my Lord sit at my
right hand till I make your enemies your
foot stol now the Lord is all caps that
is God the father and said to my Lord
that is the one that was coming after
him that was of of his children but yet
it would be his Lord verse four in that
same text of Psalm 110 says the Lord has
sorn and will not relent talking to this
other Lord you are a priest forever
according to the order of MDC so we're
going to talk a lot about that today uh
Hebrews 7 verse1 makes it clear that he
was King and priest in verse three makes
it clear that he had no beginning of
days or end of life and we'll talk about
what that means in relationship to this
whole subject Hebrews chapter 5 verse 6
beginning it says Christ did not glorify
himself to be high
priest if he it was he who said that is
the father who said you are a priest
forever according to the order of mzc so
Jesus didn't say give me the priesthood
the father made him high priest and
verse 10 it says called by God as high
priest that's all Hebrews chapter 5
Galatians 6 verse1 14 The Passage we're
all familiar with is simply this that we
shouldn't boast in anything except in
the Cross of Christ so it is appropriate
that we understand how Christ came to be
our high priest and that he is
worthy he's not just worthy of a
tenth he's worthy of
every you've got
plus so if you could give him
more you would think about it so that's
the lesson today from a perspective but
now we're going to just can I just read
some scripture I'm going to do something
today I know I did a few weeks ago but I
just want to read some scripture today
and force you to think through it
especially as it relates to what you
would think about giving because I've
seen lots of members of the church say I
don't give a tent that's not commanded
that's Old Testament
stuff I just want to walk you through
the theology underneath what you might
think is not true so I want to Begin
Again read beginning in verse one of
Hebrews chapter 7 because
Jesus is of the order of mzc and was
worthy to receive tithes of
Abraham let me read it for you mzc king
of Salem preach of the most high God who
met Abraham returning from the slaughter
of the Kings and blessed him now he went
out with his army and he defeated the
enemy that had defeated Sodom and all of
that brought them back verse Two To whom
also Abraham gave a tenth part of of all
that is he tithed of what was brought
back first being translated king of
righteousness and apparently he gave
this to mzc and then also king of Salem
meaning king of peace without father
without mother now we don't know what
that means and somebody says oh that
just means we have no genealogy of him
well we don't have a genealogy of him
but we don't know if that's all that
means cuz you have to take the Bible for
what it says that's just what it says uh
F without father without mother without
genealogy having neither beginning of
days nor end of life well that's serious
does that mean that he never died or
does that mean that we don't have a
record of it uh just take it at face
value so it sounds like someone who
never was born and who never died but
made like the Son of God who really uh
was eternal before he came here remains
a priest continually so he's always
going to be priest apparently verse four
now consider how great this man was to
to whom even the patriarch Abraham gave
a tenth of the spoil and indeed those
who are the sons of Levi
receive excuse me re received in uh the
priesthood have a commandment to receive
the tithe from the people according to
the law that is from their be Brethren
though they have come from the loins of
Abraham so what he's talking about is
what we discussed last week about how
that the levitical priesthood in the Old
Testament received a tithe and that was
from their people but there's a sense in
which mzc is greater because there's a
sense in which Levi gave a tithe to even
MDC verse six but he whose genealogy is
not derived from them received tithe
from Abraham and blessed him who had the
promises so if you're a Jew you consider
no one greater than Abraham and yet
Abraham gave ties to MDC and mzc blessed
him verse seven now beyond all
contradiction the Lesser is blessed by
the better so that means that Abraham
wasn't as great a man as MDC that's
saying something verse eight here mortal
men receive tithes that is he's talking
about the Levites at that time here
mortal men receive tithes but there he
receives them of whom it is witnessed
that he lives now he's talking about two
people right now he's talking about mzc
but he's also talking about
Jesus that Jesus is the worthy Eternal
King and priest as MDC was King and
priest so the whole simple point is just
this Jesus is worthy to receive tithe
according to the order of MDC because
that's the order he's a part of and
therefore worthy to receive the tithes
of Abraham which in effect he did and I
know that's complicated and it sounds
strange to you and maybe you've never
studied it before but it's absolutely
100% what this is teaching the second
thing you need to get is that Jesus is
the order of mzc and worthy to receive
the tithe of the
Levites beginning of verse n even Levi
who received tithes paid TI eyes through
Abraham so to speak this is an
interesting concept that applies to a
lot of different things but we generally
don't go down this rabbit hole because
it scares us this Rabbit Hole basically
is saying Levi was in the loins of
Abraham when Abraham paid tithe well
that means that we were in the loins of
Adam you just don't think that way too
often which means we were kind of there
when he s
we just don't think about that very much
verse
10 for he was still in the loins of his
father when MDC met
him okay therefore if Perfection were
through the levitical priesthood for
under it the people received the law
what further need was there that another
priest should arise according to MDC now
he's making an argument about the Old
Testament New Testament now right that
there would have been no need for a new
testament or a change in the law or
anything if the old priesthood was good
enough but it wasn't because there was
going to be a priesthood of the order of
mzc and not be called according to the
order of Aaron verse 12 for the
priesthood being changed of necessity
there is also a change of the laws so
those who who believe that the olaw is
just equally enforced as it always was
having accepted this concept there was a
change of the priesthood therefore there
had to be a change in the law therefore
we are not under the law in the way that
they were in the Old Testament verse 13
for he of whom these things are spoken
belong to another tribe from which no
man has officiated at the altar now
that's an interesting concept I'm going
to get to something here a lot of people
don't like this argument of the argument
of Silence but if someone says you can't
argue from the from Silence of the
scripture well whoever wrote this is
making that argument right here verse 14
for it is evident that our Lord arose
from Judah of which tribe Moses spoke
nothing concerning priesthood he just
made an argument that Jesus could not be
a priest as of the order of the Levites
because he was not a descendant of Levi
he descended of Judah which made him in
line to become king but not to become
PRI priest how did he become high priest
if he's not in the descendant of the
priest he couldn't if we kept the Old
Law the way it was before something has
changed what priesthood is he the high
priest of that's what he's talking about
verse 15 and it is yet far more evident
if in the likeness of MDC there arises
another priest well that was the promise
Psalm 110 1-4 that is the promise if
that's not true then psalm PSM 110 was a
lie verse 16 who has come not according
to the law of a fleshly commandment but
according to the power of an endless
life that emphasis on no birth record no
death record no birth no death always
existing verse
17 for he testifies you are a priest
forever according to the order of MDC
that's the promise of the Lord and what
he said to my Lord when he was going to
make all of his
enemies uh kneel at his foot stol Verse
18 for on the one hand there is an
annulling of the former commandment
because of its weakness and
unprofitableness so that means the
Commandment about priest in the Old
Testament had to be wiped away but more
than that the Commandment about how that
priest would resolve your sin problem
that's gone cuz that couldn't do the job
verse 19 for the law made nothing
perfect on the other hand there's the
bringing in of a better hope through
which we draw near to God so basically
he has a greater priesthood through MDC
who was even greater than Abraham and
has because of two things two things
made his priesthood greater not just
because he's from mzc but because he was
made priest according to an oath by the
father and because he could purify you
forever because he ever lives so he is a
worthy of Eternal change from the aonic
priesthood and the law to the mzc
priesthood and the New Testament so
Jesus is Worthy in that concept stay
with me to receive tithe according to
mzc and therefore worthy to receive the
tithes of even the
Levites a't that interesting
number
next now we want to talk about our time
so Jesus is the order mzc that's
indisputable if you believe Hebrews at
all if you believe Psalm 110 it's
indisputable he is of the order of mezc
and therefore worthy to receive tithes
of Christians that's the message
underneath it whether you like that
message or not that is the message is
coming through we tend to gloss over
this because we like to think that no
such
concept is on us but that is the
underlying message here and you got to
stay with it if you're going to pay
attention to what it's saying look at
verse 20 in as much as he was not made
priest without an oath so now the Old
Testament none of the priests in the Old
Testament were made priests by an oath
from the father that didn't happen sorry
you can go look for it it ain't in there
that's an interesting concept there is
no oath in the Old Testament about their
priesthood
verse 21 for they have become priests
without an oath but he with an oath by
who said to him the Lord has sworn and
will not
relent you are a pre in other words
they'll never be a time when he'll say
oh I changed my
mind I'm swearing to you Jesus you are a
priest
forever according to the order of
MDC by in verse 22 by so much more Jesus
has become assurity of a better Covenant
also there were and why better because
he's better than Abraham better than the
Levites better than all of us and there
were many priests because they were
prevented by Death from continuing all
those guys died and they couldn't be
priest anymore but he because he
continues forever yes Jesus died but he
rose again to never die again he
continues forever having an unchangeable
priesthood so you can't take it away
from someone who lives forever and has
been promised by he who lives forever
that you will be a priest forever and I
will not relent from it verse 25
therefore he is also able to save to the
uttermost oh that's a wonderful saying I
love that saying and there is nothing he
cannot save you from to the uttermost no
time no no where no how he is also able
to save to the uttermost those who come
to God through him since he always lives
to make intercession for us that's what
he does even now he makes intercession
for us continually you do wrong
intercessions made you sin intercessions
made praise the Lord and can he save you
well you he doesn't know what I did
wrong you think he's not seen what
you've ever done before
and he's not already forgiven it by
someone else no matter what you've done
I guarantee that somebody done lot worse
than you and he's already forgiven them
already saved them they're already
receiving Their Blessings because
they're long dead and here you are
doubting at this point in your life
verse 26 for such a high priest was
fitting for us who is Holy harmless
undefiled separated from Sinners and has
become higher than the heavens oh yeah
he is worthy of all he is worthy of all
verse 27 who does not need daily he
doesn't need what the old priest needed
he didn't need that the daily as the
high priest to offer up sacrifices first
for his own sins and then for the sins
of the people he didn't have to do that
he did once for all when he offered up
himself verse 28 for the law appoints as
high priest men who have weaknesses but
the word of the oath this this is from
the Father which came from the law
appoints the son the Son of God who has
been perfected forever oh yeah it's
qualified qualified saved to the other
most forever higher and perfected so he
is the worthy Eternal
oath made by the Lord the father of all
that he would be preached forever and
therefore able to resolve our sin
problem
forever more I suppose if you could
argue that there was sin after the the
Judgment if you could argue that I don't
think you can but if you could argue
that he could still fix that too because
it's forever so Jesus is worthy to
receive tith according to the order of
mezc and therefore worthy to receive the
tithes of Christians you say well that's
not what he's teaching here yeah but
it's implying that he's worthy of it
that's all I'm trying to say he is
worthy of it don't tell me he's not
worthy to receive your 10% oh yeah
that's the point of it he is worthy he's
worthy of all these things so that's the
message he was worthy of the tithes of
Abraham he's worthy of the tithes of the
Levites and he's worthy of the tithes of
any Christian so Jesus is called the
Holy One in the New Testament I know in
Isaiah God's called the Holy One of
Israel in the New Testament Jesus is
given that title the Holy One the Holy
One the Holy One yeah he's given that
title
Colonel John Howard was ordered to
retreat in the Revolutionary
War but as he did you noticed the
British began to
charge now I don't know if you know this
but if you're retreating and the other
side's charging you're in
trouble so U Colonel John Howard stopped
everybody and turned them and ordered an
attack which they did and it so caught
the British off guard that they won they
won the
battle now he received a great honor for
that but the general who gave him the
honor General Morgan reminded him as
he's giving him this momentto this order
some kind of thing he stuck on his chest
as he's giving him that he whispers to
him hope you receive this honor well
done but you understand had your
countercharge failed you would have been
shot
today what was a great
honor was really in a way a disgrace
because he failed to follow an order He
was ordered to leave the
field a point
is the
disgrace of the
cross has become the honor of the cross
the shame he bore in my place we should
have all been naked on that tree
embarrassed because we're naked on a
tree embarrassed because everybody
thinks we have done something terrible
because we
have all hanging there in agony dying
those six
hours that's our
place what was a
disgrace has become the greatest honor
that we could ever bestow on him and
so every
knee
shall
bow and every tongue shall
confess what class that Jesus Christ is
Lord to the glory of God the
father so in 10 billion years from
now 10 billion years from now I to Ed
the bigger term but I'm not that smart
10 billion years from
now this Earth in all that we've done
here and all the history of the
earth might be
forgotten I don't
know what won't be
forgotten is what's written in here
because this is an eternal
word it can't be done away with it ever
lives it is an eternal word so these
words will live 10 billion years from
now and 10 billion years from now I can
almost see
us gathered
around let's read it one more time cuz I
remember when it happened and I want to
read it one more time I saw the right
hand of him who sat on the throne scroll
written inside and on the back sealed
with Seven Seals then I saw a strong
angel proclaiming with a loud voice who
is worthy to open the scroll and to
loose its seals and no
one no one in heaven or on Earth or
under the Earth was able to open a
scroll I wept because no one was found
worthy to open and to read the
scroll but one of the elders
said do not
weep Behold The Lion of the tribe of
Judah the root of David has prevailed to
open the scroll and to loose its Seven
Seals and behold in the midst of the
throne and of the four living creatures
and the elders stood a lamb as though it
had been
slain and he came and he took the scroll
out of the right hand of him who sat on
the
throne and when he had taken the scroll
the four living creatures and the 24
Elders fell down before the lamp and
they sang a news song saying you are
worthy to take the scroll and open the
seals for you were slain and have
redeemed us to God by your blood out of
every tribe and tongue and people and
nation and have made us Kings and
Priests to our God and we shall reign on
the earth then I heard the voice of many
angels around the throne the living
creatures and the elders and then the
number of them was 10,000 times 10,000
and thousands of thousands and we will
be there that day and we will say saying
with a loud voice Worthy is the Lamb who
was slain to receive power and riches
and wisdom and strength and honor and
glory and blessings and every creature
which is in the heavens and on the earth
and under the Earth and such as are in
the sea and all of them I heard saying
blessing and honor and glory and power
be unto him who sits upon the throne and
to the lamb forever and
ever then the four living creatures
said
amen amen
now the Royal course Society has sung
this handles Messiah records a song like
this it's a cheap
imitation don't you look forward to
being in the crowd
so when somebody says I don't think you
ought to say that Jesus is Worthy of the
time you ought to give me more than
that you certainly owe it to
him
amen so let's put him where he deserves
he's
worthy amen he's worthy we're going to
heaven today not because we're worthy
amen because he's worthy blessing honor
glory and power be unto him forever and
ever so if you're here today and you
haven't ever made Jesus Lord of your
life it's kind of a silly way to
live you should do it amen repent of
your sins confess to the name of Christ
live for him if you not been given to
him what are you thinking
God bless you have a blessed day but if
you need to come come while we stand
while we sing
