now I think maybe I'm wrong but I think
we
all uh hate things that cost too much in
inflationary times it seems like a lot
of stuff but I think we hate debt I
think we all are kind of that way uh
somebody asked the question what would
be a good first name for a man that's in
debt and somebody says Owen I think
that's a good answer but somebody else
said if if you're you're having a lot of
debt and it doesn't bother
you uh you deserve a lot of
credit I think debt is one of those
things we just all hate we don't want it
we wish if you have debt which if you
have a mortgage you have
debt uh but not all debt or all spending
or all giving is worth it
all uh
but not all debt is
dead that's kind of a weird
concept we have a building we're sitting
in right now that's worth somewhere in
the neighborhood of $7.5
million uh that's a building that we
built for about $4.5
million and when you count in the land
and everything that's sitting here right
now and the land next to it we're
actually not in
debt that's really the truth I read I
used to be a big fan I no longer like
him at all so I don't know if that's an
appropriate thing to even mention but
used to read a lot of Robert Schuler Dr
Robert Schuler stuff he read wrote this
and I still think this is correct I want
to read this to you I think it's kind of
interesting what after all is debt fresh
out of Seminary newly married and just
installed as a pastor of my first church
I was earning a little over $200
a month when winter approached I needed
coal for the furnace he lived up north I
went to a coal yard and ask how much
coal I would have to buy and how much it
would cost and if I could charge it the
guy answered about five tons it will
cost you about
$75 and we will not charge it you'll
have to borrow the money somewhere else
for we don't give credit on coal those
numbers sound really old don't think he
said and that was that so I went to ask
for a loan for $75 for the coal the
banker gave me a valuable lesson in
economics this is what the banker said
I'll lend you the money for coal this
time preacher but never again when you
borrow money for coal you're going into
debt the coal will be burned when it is
gone if you are unable to pay your loan
there is nothing you can sell to pay us
back when you borrow money for coal or
food or the light bill or the water bill
you're spending money that is gone
forever and that is real debt if you
want to borrow money to buy a car that's
a poor investment or a house that's a
good investment we will lend you the
money then you are not going into debt
you are going into the investment
business if you can't cannot pay off
your auto loan you can sell the car pay
us back what we have coming and any
money you have left is your return on
your investment if you borrow money to
buy a store and you borrow money for
sellable Goods to stock the shelves you
are not in debt you are in business if
you cannot pay off your loan we can sell
the store and the goods if there is
money left over after we are repaid you
can have the profit from your investment
if you have no money left over after
paying off the loan you haven't made any
money it's that simple he went on to say
it was this
advice which was to give me greater
courage years later when starting our
new church how long it would it take to
collect the money from Surplus offerings
perhaps 20 years so we decided to borrow
the money when finished the entire
development was valued at a million
dollar nearly
600,000 was borrowed money someone said
to me about that time quote I hear you
folks have a debt of
$600,000 I corrected him actually we
have no debt we could sell our property
for a million dollars pay off all
mortgages and have $ 400,000 in the bank
we don't have a debt we're worth almost
half a million
dollar I think that is actually true
everything he said and so when you sit
here and you hear and their Elders going
to explain later I think it's next week
going to talk a little bit about money
when you hear talk about that the
negative NES will say oh we're in debt
and here's the truth we are in a very
very good position financially
and I don't think you need to be sitting
around worrying about a little bit of
debt that we might have or whatever it
takes to finish this project but you
need to be serious about what we need to
do to make a future for us together now
so even though we hate debt not all debt
is
debt not all debt is debt some debt is
an investment you got a house is that
really a debt or is an in
investment I want to talk about just a
moment see not all giving is worth
it do you hear
me just because you give something don't
mean it's worth it to you not all giving
is worth it because it doesn't give you
what you want and so I want to talk to
you about some things just real quick
this is not the lesson I just want to
talk to you just a moment about some
things that are not worthy if you give
to cover up
hard-heartedness it's not worth it 1st
Samuel 15:22 says to obey is better than
sacrifice if you've got a hard heart
that won't do what the Lord asked you to
do as Saul did all the giving all the
sacrifice in the world will not cover
that
up if you give to cover up haughtiness
if you're actually your problem is
either hard-heartedness or your problem
is hotty you can give all you want and
it won't fix that problem it's not worth
it might as well keep your money
Psalm 51:17 the sacrifices of God are a
broken spirit and a broken and a
contrite heart the real thing that makes
a difference with God is the heart that
comes in offering things if you give to
cover up your hustling in other words
your businessman but you're not just a
businessman you're a little bit of a
crooked businessman and you hustle
people out of money and you know you do
some things that you shouldn't do let me
tell you something it's not worth it to
give to try to cover that up you can't
cover that up
three Satan has filled your heart to lie
to the Holy Spirit to keep back the
price the point of these two these two
uh this couple here it was simply this
that they were trying to give to cover
up who they really
were and if you give to cover up
hatefulness that you got a hate a lot of
Hate in Your Heart it's not worth it to
give 1 Corinthians 13:3 though I bestow
all my goods to feed the poor oh but
I've I've given to the poor and and
though I give my body to be burned for
the Lord but have not love it profits me
nothing so let me tell you something if
you are hateful in your heart it doesn't
do you any good you got to have love and
it won't cover that and if you give to
cover up hoggish because really you're
just giving but the truth is that you
want more and more and more and more and
you wish you had more than you have
right now and you wish you had more than
anybody else here and that's what's
constantly on your mind and you're
basically a hoggish greedy person and
then 2 Corinthians 8:9 says Christ
though he's Rich yet for your sakes he
became poor that you through his poverty
might become rich that's the spirit of
Christ not the other wanting just
more so think on it we want you to give
but we really want your heart to be
right with God you understand that it's
not about the money it's about
you absolutely we need you to to give
sure but you need to be straight with
God first amen that's the important
thing now Jesus taught the kingdom is
worth it all and giving to it is worth
it
all what is supposed to be supported
well we're supposed to support the
preaching and teaching of God's word and
it's worth it I'm not going to read
through all those verses but I just want
you to know the Bible's very clear on
the point our money is to go to
preaching and teaching the word of God
that's the number one thing number two
supporting the needs of God's Saints
it's worth it and we have people who
have needs Even in our own congregation
all along food clothing housing what
what what's covered there's nothing not
covered if you have a need there's
nothing not on the list whether it's
food or clothing or it's your housing or
it's your goods or your services your
needs by the way this worship facility
covers one of your needs so somebody
says I don't believe in building Church
buildings well okay so you got to
worship somewhere so either rent a place
where we find a tree somebody's got to
buy the tree somebody's got to have the
land I'm sorry you got to pay for
something there's nothing free in this
world Bible classrooms those are kind of
nice uh we can use more than we've got
restrooms by the way I've never seen a
church building without a restroom since
back in the 50s so I'm just telling you
straight up restrooms are a good thing
amen amen walls so restrooms that serves
you Fellowship supplies that serves you
that's by the way that's for the Saints
all that's for you and so that's back in
your pocket we'll talk more about that
in the next couple of weeks and then
Phil facilities whatever we need but by
extension we should not have an evil
eye youall know what that is you know
it's funny they took it out of Matthew
chapter 6 because nobody understood it
apparently people who read Matthew
chapter 6 even after the King James got
the evil eye in there had never read the
Old Testament it's really kind of
weird that's kind of weird that it's
been dropped it's actually in the Old
Testament several times but it's
specifically in the law an evil eye is
when you look at somebody and you decide
they're not worthy of you
helping because you know they're not as
good as they should be take a long look
in the mirror
folks job 42:1 interesting thing job I'm
I'm I'm thrilled that Mel's teaching
class on job you'll get a good Classon
be here on Wednesday night here Mel's
class on job that's a really good lesson
but it's funny see their theology was
this what had happened to job meant he
was a bad guy I mean that's their
theology bad things happen to bad people
they don't have to good people so he
must have been a bad bad guy and if God
is so hurting job then you shouldn't
help him because then you're a part of
fighting against God and yet at the very
end of that book people come and help
him you see that's the attitude you're
supposed to have quit evaluating
everybody and just help don't have an
evil lie don't have an evil lie giving
to teach the word or minister to the
Saints or be good to all is worth it all
that's the truth I'm G to give you three
demonstrations of this and then I'll be
done early disciples heard the kingdom
was worthy of selling and giving all for
that's exactly the teaching we just read
you may not like it but nothing you have
is worth as much as the kingdom nothing
not your wife not your children not your
possessions if you piled it all up all
that you'd made all your life and it
still does not equal the value of the
Kingdom Matthew 13: 44 beginning I'll
read it again it was read a minute ago
very well but let me read it again again
the Kingdom of Heaven is like treasure
hidden in a field which a man found and
hid and for Joy over it he goes and
sells all that he has and bu
12:33 it's a passage I've noticed that's
not quoted a lot have you noticed this
one I've noticed that nobody even wants
to talk about it much have y'all noticed
this this is one of those passages where
I've seen people just kind of gloss over
teaching the Bible class and they just
run over
it because they know the Rich Young
Ruler now he needed to hear this but the
rest of us
don't have you read it this is not
spoken to the Rich Young Ruler this is
spoken to you and
me every last one of us are supposed to
listen to this one Luke
12:33 read it closely sell what you have
and give arms provide yourselves money
bags which do not grow old a treasure in
the heavens that does not fail where no
Thief approaches nor moth destroys
whatever you send on you can't
lose but that would are you suggesting
preacher I ain't suggesting nothing I'm
quote what the Bible says I don't care
if you like it or
don't number
three early disciples accepted the
kingdom was worthy of selling and giving
all now so they heard
it they clearly learned it and then they
accepted it look at Acts chapter 2 if
you have doubts read the very first
moments of the church coming into
existence in Acts chapter 2 and verse 45
and they sold their possessions and
goods what gave them that crazy
idea I think we just saw it didn't we
and they sold their possessions and
goods and divided them among all as
anyone had need they were trying to
extend the Outreach after Pentecost was
over to give as much possibility of
everybody getting the teaching that they
could so they could all go home and take
the gospel with them why because the
kingdom is worth all I've
got every bit of
it so that's the lesson that's a deep
profound no it's pretty simple is
it pretty simple I mean that's about as
simple as you could get they heard it
they learned earned it they accepted
it
or will we sell our souls to possess the
World Mark
8:36 I'm got to ask you a serious
question listen to me real clearly
here are we the
ones who give to
get I know that that that everybody
wants a sermon on giving to get
is that who we
are giving to get in this world so
basically we want a Prosperity
Gospel sermons on you can't out give
God what what's it really about a bigger
car a bigger house a fancier retirement
package what what are we really after
there
as latecomers because we're not the
early disciples as
latecomers we've
heard and you just
learned but have you
accepted that the kingdom is worth it
all or is it
somehow God wants us all to just be
wealthy and that's the message of the
Gospel he just wants us to prosper
financially I got to tell you there a
few years ago that wasn't the sentiment
of
Christians the sentiment of Christians
was heaven will surely be worth it all
worth all the Sorrows that here
befall after it this life with all of it
Strife heaven will surely be worth it
all or is it we built a heaven in our
house is that our Heaven is that all we
want
want and so I'm not giving anymore to
that church cuz I've got all I want I've
got my
heaven Romans 8: 18 for I consider that
the sufferings of this present time are
not worthy to all your trouble is not
worth you don't even listen to me on the
day of judgment you dare not bring up
your
sickness if you go into heaven and I
don't care what's happened to you and
I'm not mocking anybody's sickness or
your financial ruin or the fact that you
lost somebody that was dear to you you
dare not mention it that day because
when you see what God's got planned for
you you will be too embarrassed if even
uh I think I'll be
quiet listen to it for I consider that
the sufferings of this present time are
not worthy to be compared with the glory
which shall be revealed in
us what
what you can't even compare it so the
kingdom is worth it all but be
careful and and it sounds like I'm
judging you and I'm I'm really not I'm
just trying to lay a lesson out because
who knows what's in the room I don't
know what's in the room I don't know
what you've been do it I've got nothing
I've got no information about you and by
the way don't want any don't tell me I
don't want to know I don't want to know
your financial situation I don't no no
don't tell me unless unless you feel
like I can help I no no but uh be
careful not to judge what another man
does with his
things or his
selling or is
giving you don't know him you certainly
don't know him well enough to do
that I'll give you an example of that
Charles Haden Spurgeon uh the preacher
from yesterday year that 5,000 people of
service would come and listen to he and
his wife his wife's name was
Susanna according to the story in uh
chaplain
magazine they now this you got to
remember when this was this is about 150
years ago right so they would
sell but refus to give away the eggs
that their chicken laid you can kind of
tell where that's at how many of had
chickens lately
right well there's an odd person here or
there that's got a pet but but no
there's not too many people with
chickens right okay so they would sell
but they refused to give away the eggs
that their chicken
laid and so even when close relatives
asked for eggs they'd make them pay for
it
and you'd have them pay for it no matter
who they were so their own congregation
began to criticize them
and people lay label the Spurgeon as
greedy and
grasping and you know what they said in
response to that
nothing well they must be greedy and
grasping them they won't even defend
themselves they won't give away their
eggs they only sell
them only after Susanna Spurgeon died
did the story ever get out
they just wouldn't let their left hand
know what their right hand
did all the prophets they ever made from
the eggs went to supporting two elderly
widows but they didn't want that to be
told and people to know who was being
helped so giving is A Private Matter
between you and
God uh we say that we seek to restore
New Testament Christianity
amen it's what we're about the early
disciples here's the New Testament
Christianity early disciples heard that
the kingdom of heaven was worth selling
all and giving
it they learned through the teaching of
Jesus that selling all and giving it was
appropriate and then apparently the
early disciples accepted that and as the
kingdom unfold holded they sold their
goods and
gave that's just what happened amen
that's what happened like it or not I
don't see how that applies to me of
course not if you want to keep all you
junk there's no
application make Jesus Lord of your life
you need to hear believe repent confess
be baptized Lord willing we've got
people doing that today remember the
Lord Lord of your life includes by the
way if he is Lord of your life he's Lord
of all that you
have is it really worth it
all give you one verse and I'm going to
leave this one with you okay is the
Kingdom of Heaven worth everything
you've got would would you give up
everything you've got even your
retirement package left with nothing
have to go work at Walmart to as a
greeter for the the
kingdom would would you give it all up
would would you give your life up W
would would you walk away from it all
only people really pretty much do that
generally and sells all are are
missionaries you go to another country
you going to sell it all but but
generally speaking you're probably not
going to be asked but would you do it is
it worth it 1 Corinthians chapter 3
here's their verse verses 21 and
22 here's the truth
all
things are
yours
Paul
Apollos
sephus the
world
life
death or things present
are things to
come
all
are
yours and you are Christ and Christ is
God are you telling me that your little
stuff is worth more than all
that all things I I don't really how do
you
compare I my car and my
house and my little bit of
money with
all you
can't you can't out give God because
he's going to give you give it all to
you
all you're the child of the king of the
universe
it all belongs to
you so giving up anything here is worth
it
all if you need to uh make a change
we're always here to help you hope
you're able to stay around a little bit
and see a baptism God bless you if you
come come while we stand and while we
sing
