I believe the Book of Job was written
likely at least U probably in
cooperation with a couple of people job
and eliu but I think it was probably
written by Moses to because Moses is
attributed to have written it by uh the
talmid and the
barva and so that means that Moses wrote
Genesis Exodus Leviticus Numbers
Deuteronomy Psalm 90 in the Book of
Job and you may Wonder well how could he
write all of that since he's he's told
to be dead in Deuteronomy 34:5 the same
way that job could have been a part of
it and he's told to be dead in job
42:17 we're all going to
die May the 26
2000 the last day of school West Palm
Beach who doesn't like the the last day
of school
kids it's like the best day right you're
out of school it's over this is the day
you were looking
for Barry grenal felt the same way he
was teaching at lakew Worth Community
Middle
School and in West Palm
Beach it was seventh grade that he
taught he was known
as uh kind of a goofy kind of looking
fella they had names for him Shaggy
because they reminded him of that
character
Shaggy he was 35 years
old he had a
wife 5-year-old
son and an infant daughter and he he
knew he had many plans that
summer but a 13-year-old student student
shot him dead with a semi-automatic
pistol at 15 minutes before the bell
rang for the day to be
over they say of him one of uh the
mothers of one of the students that he
taught he was a great man I always
enjoyed it when my kids were going to be
in his classes every way you look at it
it's a tragedy and
scary but you know Barry is no different
than the rest of
us Barry
died so will
you so will
I and it may come early it did in the
Life of Christ and therefore seems
unfair if it comes
early we simply don't know you see life
is short if you live to be as old as I
am
and it's uncertain every step of the way
no guarantees I'd have got this far no
guarantees you'd have got this far no
guarantees you'll get any
further death is uncertain and because
of that it's it's actually fearful it's
not wrong for you to not like this
subject it is right for you to like it
hate the subject not want to talk about
it I don't blame you I don't either
James 4:14 what is your life it is even
a vapor that appears for a little time
and then vanishes away job I mean is not
only written by Moses but Psalm 90
written by Moses listen to what Moses
said in verse 5 like grass which grows
up in the morning it flourishes and
grows up in the evening it is cut down
and
Withers you don't know no George Bernard
Shaw says the statistics on death have
not changed one out of one persons
dies but in our death denying society
and that's where we live we don't
believe in death
anymore we think if somebody dies it's a
shock we are against talking about it
we're against thinking about it we're
against hearing about it and I certainly
didn't come to church this morning to
hear about
death I think we're all kind of there
but I want to tell you something there
is no diet that will prevent
it there is no exercise on some ball
that'll keep you from
dying there is no drug that you can take
that will stop it
there is no lotion you can rub on your
skin or your head that will prevent it
there is no potion somewhere out there
that somebody's keeping a secret that
will keep you from dying there is no
cream there is no chant there is no
prayer there is no song at church you're
going to die I'm going to die we are all
going to die cheerful day at church
Hebrews chapter 2: 14 and 15 even Jesus
died and it was important that he died
so when you get to the death door just
remember he's already been through the
door maybe that'll help you a little bit
verse 14 as the children have partaken
of Flesh and Blood he himself likewise
shared in the same that through death he
might destroy him who had the the power
of death that is the devil and release
those who through fear of death were all
their life
time subject to bondage do you hear that
all of our lifetime we're Bound by the
fear of
death it's not
new Hebrews 9:27 it is appointed unto
men wants to
die it's an
appointment Hillary Clinton that's a
great Authority on
this she was speaking in Rochester New
York someone asked her if she thought
that she would spend eternity in heaven
or hell what a thing to ask a
person she said I cannot tell you where
I will
be and then she said I can only hope and
pray that I will find favor in God's
eyes guess what I don't care what you
think of her that applies to you and
me can we be sure that there is life
after
death you know in the 1998 Harris poll
84% of the people of America believe in
life after
death Henry wodsworth Longfellow said it
this way life is
real life is earnest
and the grave is not the
goal dust Thou Art to dust
returnthe of the
Soul
truly I need to give you a
little
encouragement let's see if we can find
some
truths that will make you feel a little
better about what horrendous things I've
just
said because if that's the lesson I
don't want to come back next week
especially if there's a part two or a
part three I don't want any part of
those parts here's the truth just so you
know without going into the Bible too
deep there is a universal belief in life
after death and it's not new it's been
around a long time it seems to be extra
biblical in other words outside of
scripture even just human nature seems
to say there's more to life than what
meets the eye here and now we find it in
the Egyptian culture y'all know all
about the tombs of the Egyptian pharaohs
they believed in it obviously the
Indians of America the native people of
America believed in a happy Hunting
Ground that they would go to and and
even the Eastern religions even though
they believe in a reincarnation they
believe that they would come back here
at least there still life beyond somehow
you almost can't go into any culture of
the world where there isn't a discussion
of what happens after this life but not
only that there is within us all this
desire for justice and we know that a
lot of people don't get Justice in this
world and we feel like there's got to be
something that fixes that doesn't there
it feels like somehow that's got to be
resolved and then there's all those
near-death experiences you hear about do
you know what to believe about that I
don't know what to believe about it but
it is interesting that there are so many
of them even my father when he was
having his first heart attack thought he
went through a tunnel and saw Jesus so
I'm telling you it's common out there
and then the there's obviously the
teaching of the Old Testament and then
there's the teaching of the New
Testament and then there's just simply
the words of Jesus but more than that
it's the action of Jesus it appears to
everybody that at least the New
Testament people thought he rose from
the dead and so much so it changed
Paul's life I got a lesson coming in a
few weeks on that very idea but the
resurrection of Christ seems to be true
Dr Peter creef said this he's an
apologist he said the most certain
Assurance of life after death for the
Christian is the historical literal
resurrection of Christ and clearly
hundreds supposedly saw it and thousands
and thousands and thousands of people at
the time believed and it's the reason
you're in a church building this
morning but there's also that
homesickness there's something within us
that I want something
else Squire par Parson wrote I'm
homesick for a
country to which I've
never been
before no sad goodbyes will there be
spoken for time won't matter anymore P
land I'm longing for you and someday on
thee I'll stand there My Hope shall be
Eternal Beau land there's
something kind of
homesick especially as you get
older I want to give you three answers
from The Book of Job if a man dies shall
he live again they're pretty
straightforward pretty simple and I want
you to receive them just by reading it
with me
we're going to look at the answer to Is
their life after death is seen in God's
creation look at what it says just in
the text for there is hope for a
tree if it is cut down then it shall
Sprout again and that its tender roots
or shoots will not cease though its
roots May grow old in the earth and it
stump may die in the ground yet at the
scent of water it will bud and bring
forth branches like a
plant but man dies and is laid away
indeed he breathes his last and where is
he as water disappears from the sea and
rivers become parts and dries up I
remember in in Africa seeing some grass
they call the resurrection plant it's as
dry as it could be I mean literally I I
couldn't discern any life in it at all
you've probably seen it I mean and just
a little water sudden it's back up and
you're like how did that happen you see
the truth is uh life after death is seen
in creation around us and it's so
obvious if you just look a moment that
there is meant to be life after this you
just look at a stump Daniel 4: 26 as
they gave the command to leave the stomp
this is talking about what would happen
to Nebuchadnezzar but but it's in a
dream as the Watchers gave a command to
leave the stump and roots of the tree
your kingdom shall be assured of you
just ass sure as a stump will put forth
after it's been cut down another tree
life's after death is not just seen in
stumps that we see in nature but it's
also seen in seeds in John 12: 24 says
unless a grain of wheat falls in the
ground and dies listen to the word dies
it remains alone and if you've ever
followed a little seed it smells like
it's
rotting but if it dies it produces much
grain 1 Corinthians 15:36 what you seow
is not made alive unless it dies so all
the food you eat when you're eating all
those vegetables came from a dead
thing life after death is seen in the
Seas themselves that surr around Florida
Ecclesiastes 1:7 says all the rivers run
into the sea yet the sea is not full to
the place from which the rivers come
there they return
again like it never
ends but not only does
creation make us want to understand and
believe that there is life after
death but to answer this question is
their life after death it's the answer
is seen in God's conclusions Even in our
text here look at verses 12 through 14
you might be surprised at what job
unveils here so man lies down and does
not
rise but then he says till I want you to
pay close attention he uses the word
till or until three times in this text
pay attention it's always good to read
scripture closer till the heavens are no
more now that may sound like he doesn't
believe it'll ever happen but that's not
what he's really saying stay with me
till the heavens are no more they will
not wake awake nor be roused from the
sleep and that's absolutely
true I'm telling your body once it dies
is not going to wake up till the heavens
are no
more 13 oh that you will hide me in the
grave that you may conceal me
until your wrath is passed that's right
that's exactly true until God's Wrath is
passed that you would appoint me a set
time and remember we we'll come back to
that verse 14 if a man dies shall he
live again in all the days of my hard
service I will wait till my change comes
until there is a change changed that's
right see the next life is not till the
heavens are no more where' I get that
well it's not just in this text 2 Peter
3:10 for example the heavens will pass
away with a great noise and the elements
will melt with fervent
heat the next life is not till God's
Wrath is passed that's right God's going
to unveil his wrath upon those who will
not surrender revelation 11: 18 your
wrath has come and the time of the Dead
that they should be judged oh yeah he's
going to deal with everybody and that
you should reward your servants the
prophets and the Saints and those who
fear your name shall small and great and
shall destroy those who destroy the
Earth so he will deal with the
wicked and then the next life is not
till my change comes in 1 Corinthians
15:51 says says we shall not all sleep
but we shall all be class changed we
shall not all sleep but there's a change
coming so the answer is is there life
after death it's seen in God's
conclusions himself I'll show you one
more thing in this text it's really good
and that's the answer to Is is there
life after death and it's seen in God's
considerations if you're with me again
look down in verses 13 through 15 oh oh
that you would hide me in the grave why
would I need to be hidden if there's no
life after death hide me in the grave
that you would conceal me until your
wrath is passed well that's okay he will
that you would listen to these
statements that you would appoint me a
set
time and remember me that's critical
verse 14 if a man dies shall he live
again all the days of my heart service I
will wait till my change comes verse 15
here it is you shall call and I will
answer you shall desire the work of your
hands so the why God gives life after
death is he would appoint me Psalm 1002
verse 13 says you will
arise talking to you now
you will arise and have mercy on Zion
for the time to favor her yes the set
time has come acts 17 talks about this
SE set time when it says in Acts
17:31 he has appointed he has appointed
or set as Old King James says he has
appointed a day in which you will judge
the world it's set I don't know when it
is no one knows but God the father but
it is set there is appointed day the why
God gives life after death is he shall
call me John 5 28- 29 again affirming
the same concept says for the hour is
coming in which all who are in the
graves will hear well they don't even
have an ear
anymore all who are in the graves will
hear his voice and come forth well no I
just believe life after death so when
you die you just go on to be where no
that's not really the whole story your
body will rise
again and you will hear his voice and
come forth those who have done good to
the resurrection of life and those
who've done evil to the resurrection of
condemnation the why God gives life is
that he will call me but also because
this is a big one he shall desire me
let's imagine God in heaven created all
of this you believe all that we all do
so he created all this and now we're all
dead the whole thing's
over and then even if that were all it
was can you imagine a God that great
never thinking you know I'd like to see
them
again Psalm
16:10 you will not leave my soul in
shio and then in addition to that
neither will you suffer your Holy One to
seek corruption but the first thing he's
talking about is himself he's not
talking about the Messiah you will not
leave my soul in the
grave that's not going to happen nobody
dies and stays dead like Rover Dead all
over that's not going to
happen so this is a simple lesson I just
want you to see a just from his own
words is there life after death well he
may not have known he was saying it but
look what it suggests it's indicated by
God's creation it's indicated by God's
conclusions of how he's going to deal
with the whole thing and it's indicated
by God's consideration he will one day
want to see you
again so not only does our soul survive
though the scriptures are very clear God
plans to redeem both soul and body just
as he will condemn both soul and body of
the wicked he intend to redeem this skin
will be redeemed whether I like it or
not this skin will be redeemed you will
have a spiritual body but a spiritual
body according to 1 Corinthians 10:3
does not mean ethereal it just means one
that does the right thing and lives
according to God's will but the
Redemption of the body is clear Romans 8
verse 23 job 19 again affirms these same
things in job 19: 25- 27 so if you're
into job and of course this is Moses
writing this apparently for I know that
my redeemed Li that my redeemer lives
and he shall stand at last on the earth
of course he did and he will again verse
26 and after my skin is destroyed my
skin is destroyed this I know that in my
flesh I shall see God and whom I and
whom I shall see for
myself my eyes Shall Behold and not
another this ain't something I see
through somebody else my heart yearns
within me this is the message all
believers in the Risen Christ have
believed for as far back as we
believed the Roman catacombs where so
many thousands of martyred Christians
are buried contain the tombs with many
inscriptions on them here are a few in
Christ Alexander is not dead but
lives one who lives with God is another
one another tomb has this on it he was
taken up into his eternal home a
historian writing about all of these
catacombs said this pictures on the
catacomb walls portray heaven with
beautiful landscapes children playing
and people feasting at Banquets it's not
a New Concept folks it's been around a
long time in ad 125 a Greek named
aristedes wrote to a friend about these
Christians this Christianity stuff yeah
he do believe in it but he's trying to
explain why this new religion cause
Christianity is successful here's what
he
writes if any righteous man among the
Christians passes from this world they
rejoice and offer thanks to God and they
escort his body with songs and
Thanksgiving as if you were setting out
from one place to another
nearby we need to have a different
attitude
amen we need to not be sitting around oh
life is so gloomy we're going to
die that's not the way they looked at it
don't allow yourself don't allow
yourself to give up this world is not my
home I'm just a passing through
amen our Treasures are laid up somewhere
beyond the blue yeah a Angels waiting on
me there don't allow yourself to be so
traumatized but what the world says that
you give up on these Concepts don't
allow yourself to be so burdened down
that you give up on these ideas don't
get so discouraged and depressed because
of how you feel or the sickness you're
bearing that you give up on these ideas
don't give up on your dreams don't give
up on your marriage don't give up on
your family don't give up on your
children don't give up on your church
don't give up on your career don't give
up on your Ambitions don't sit around
saying why is he so like this to me
don't do that don't give up and become
cynical and lose all your hope and spend
your life y y about everything that
happens to you don't give up if you
could only see let's say that there was
a place where there was a window a a
peephole where we go and look in it and
we could see see
it it changes
all if we could only see we'd be able to
make it there without any problem we'd
be saying what you worried about dying
for if we could only see
it you see the truth is Heaven Is Yours
every last one of you saved by the grace
of God Heaven is yours Heaven Is Ours in
1952 young Florence
Chadwick stepped into the Waters of the
Pacific Ocean off Catalina Island and
she wanted to swim the 22 miles from all
the way back to the mainland of
California now she had swam across the
straight you know from Britain to France
she had done that before so she's
amazing swimmer she in fact I think
she'd have done it twice before that but
now she's going to swim from Catalina
Island 22 mies in cold water y'all know
that's cold water over there right so
that cold water come to Florida the
water's warm if you're listening on the
internet but the water's cold over there
swiming that cold water from Catalina
Island all the way to
California but when she started out it
very foggy and she started swimming 15
hours a she wanted to quit several times
she tried to convince everybody around
her to let her quit she's just tired and
cold
and her mom's in one of the boat said
don't quit don't quit it's not that
far she' swm 15 hours I can't swim 15
minutes 15 hours she'd swim and she
finally convinced them to let her get in
the boat and her mama said no it's just
right here when she got in the boat she
could see the
shore she said if I could just have seen
it
I could have
finished you got to see it with
faith if you can just see
it you can
finish it's just right over there we're
going prepare yourself if you have never
made Jesus your lord repent of your sins
confess him as the Savior be baptized
today for the remission of your sins
give yourself to it and work really hard
at peing you might just see the
shore here's a chance for you make that
last little trip to the shore if you
need to come come while we stand and
while we sing
