one of the peanuts cartoons it's always
great source of philosophy
Lucy says to Charlie Brown I Hate
Everything I hate everybody I hate the
whole wide
world Charlie says but I thought you had
inent peace cuz she's know that little
counselor and Lucy replies I do have
inner peace but I just have outside or
outer
obnoxiousness is that your
place inner
peace but you can be obnoxious
outside no she was wrong peace has a
walk it's not just something you have in
your heart it has a
walk the fruit of the
spirit is peace that's one of the fruits
but it's to be walked
in that's what it goes on to say in
verses 24 and 25 and those who are
Christ have crucified the flesh with its
passions and
desires if we live in the spirit let us
also walk in the spirit it's great to
say I have the fruit of the spirit
because the Holy Spirit has granted me
these fruits great now w walk in
it you have a choice to make you see
it's a
gift it's fruit therefore a gift but
it's also a choice you choose whether or
not to be at peace or not the fruit of
the spirit can be given in prayer as an
answer to prayer 2 Thessalonians 3:16
now may the Lord of Peace himself give
you peace and listen to these words
always always in every way and the Lord
be with you so there are
different levels if you will of peace
there's different lengths of peace
there's momentary
peace and then there's an always peace
in this
text and he we are to pray for that and
we're to pray for different ways of
peace because there's a piece that
passes all understanding and then
there's what we call every peace or
every way of peace and there is a
learning of the
variety of Peace if you will because
it's in every way and that's our Focus
today and like let me go into that a
little deeper Isaiah
26:3 talks about perfect peace we sang
about that a moment ago that song we
sang peace perfect peace by eh
bickersteth is about 150 years
old peace perfect peace and then
Philippians 4 and verse 7 talks about
this peace that passes or transcends or
passes
all understanding
that's not something you have
necessarily all the time but when you
notice it is when your life is in a
calamitous moment and you still have
peace and people look at you and think
how are you at peace at this moment like
now so there's various ways of Peace
because it's a gift it's a fruit
therefore a gift of the Holy Spirit and
there's various way ways of peace that
are choices you get to choose whether or
not you will walk in it or not so I can
give you a gift I was given this gift
for my Father's Day this is a great
Bible by the way I'm so thrilled with it
I love this Bible so I my other one was
tearing up that you probably saw me up
here with most time great Bible I was
giving that gift what good is it to sit
on a shelf so you can be given something
it is my choice now whether or not I
will use it or not right and so too you
have been given the gift of Peace it's
your choice whether or not you will walk
in it you can brag about it but if you
don't walk in it it's not really
something you're taking advantage of so
spiritual peace is at the very least
what we're going to look at today seven
things so I looked into what peace means
in the scriptures okay and kind of walk
you through that I'm give you seven
verses and we're just going to walk
through that and we'll basically be done
okay
okay number one spiritual peace is
spiritual
Wellness at least that's what's being
discussed see in the Old Testament they
used the word Shalom or Shalom depending
on what which particular version you're
talking about that is being used at this
time this happens to be Shalom and it's
in Genesis 43 and verse 27 it says this
then he asked them about their
well-being this that word their
well-being and said is your father well
this
Shalom and the old man of whom you spoke
is he still alive y'all know the
background of this probably this is
Joseph and and they answered your
servant our father is in good help he's
got Shalom he is still alive and they
bowed their heads down and prostrated
themselves so there is a peace from
being
well being
well but we're talking about spiritual
Wellness not physical wellness so there
is a peace of being spiritually well
secondly spiritual peace is spiritual
completeness least that's the meaning of
the Hebrew word in Exodus 21 and verse
36 same word that we're just talking
about but it's used very differently
here it's it's about the idea of making
it good what I mean
uh or it can be interpreted shall surely
pay what peace can mean shall surely pay
yes it means to make full
restitution to restore to make someone
whole that has been
harmed that's the meaning of peace and
it's used that way 14 times in Exodus 21
and
22 verse 36 is what I want to focus
focus in on it says or if it was known
that the ox tended to thrust in times
past that means Gore people and its
owner has not kept it
confined he shall surely
pay Ox for ox talking about his animal
kill someone else's and the dead animal
shall be his own so the word is pay
ain't that interesting that's in the way
it's interpreted here to pay to make the
man whole to put back what he's taken
from him the damage he's done so it
literally means to
complete or to make it right
completeness so if you're spiritually F
filled with peace right now then you're
spiritually
complete number
next spiritual peace is spiritual
preparedness to be prepared for what
well in numbers 6: 23- 26 again this
word is being used and it's being used
in a very unique context because In this
passage they're being readied for war
they're going to take the land of Canaan
so they are now being told something to
prepare them to get ready to go to war
how does peace connect with war how can
you you ever connect peace with war oh
it connects very well actually so
Numbers Chapter 6 as if we're getting
ready to go to war and Conquer Canaan
this is what he says verse 23 speak to
Aaron and his son saying this is the way
you shall bless the children of Israel
say to them the Lord bless and keep you
that protect you the Lord make his face
shine upon you and be great gracious to
you that is unmar favor you don't really
deserve it but God will give you his
favor verse 26 the Lord lift up his
countenance upon you and give you
peace so literally it's a wish that you
would be prepared for what's coming now
that's interesting now just think about
the words we've looked at already so
peace means spiritual
Wellness if you really are at peace if
you have peace from God you're
spiritually well you're spiritually
complete if you have peace you're
spiritually prepared for spiritual
warfare that's coming against you are
you ready for it it's good because
tomorrow you go back to work right
spiritual warfare is important tomorrow
and then
next spiritual peace is spiritual
Oneness we see this particularly in
Psalms 122: 6 and 7 peace is a prayer
it's a prayer for Oneness of love and of
Oneness of the Brotherhood and inner
peace and Oneness with God so when you
say I have peace what you mean is I'm
one with my brethren and I'm one with
the Lord okay that's peace if you're not
one with your brethren if you're having
a fight with your brethren you don't
really have peace right now but there's
peace is when you're one with your
brethren or with your family and you're
one with the Lord and here's how it's
used and this is PSAL PM
122:6 pray for the Peace of Jerusalem
now a lot of people don't understand
what that's talking about but basically
the Jews and if you leave them alone
they'll get in a fight with each other
you don't need to kill them off they'll
fight with each other it almost sounds
like sometimes families right okay he
says pray for the Peace of Jerusalem May
they Prosper who love you verse seven
peace be within your walls you see the
first problem is is can we get along
with us right peace within your walls
don't you need peace in your walls of
your house peace within your walls
Prosperity within your palaces right for
the sake of my brethren and companions I
will now say peace be within you so so
not us peace in my walls but I need to
have peace within me so it's a a Oneness
with God and the Oneness with you and
then if I don't find a way to find
Oneness with my bre and I don't find a
way to find Oneness with God I'm not at
peace I can say I'm at peace but I'm not
at
peace number
next spiritual peace is spiritual
fullness you're
spiritually full and you're so
full if you really have peace and you're
really full of Peace you're so full of
Peace you
leak if it runs over your cup runs over
with peace you're totally full of Peace
if that's where you are that's where
you're supposed to be you're supposed to
be so full of Peace it runs over and
Spills out on other people and that's
the real meaning when we it's not forced
peace nor negotiated peace between two
people people but peace that so fills an
individual that it literally gives peace
to others that's the meaning of Matthew
5 and ver9 blessed are the
peacemakers for they shall be called the
sons of God you don't come in and force
everybody to be at peace with each other
you don't come in and negotiate with
everybody and you say well that's the
guy who builds peace no no no no no
that's not the way a peacemaker does it
a peace maker does it because he is so
at peace with God so at peace with all
so at peace with everything that's going
on that it just kind of spills
out and makes everybody want to be at
peace is that what happens when you walk
in the
room spiritual peace is spiritual
blessedness in Luke
24:36 here's the the setting Christ is
risen the debt of sin has been paid and
eternal life is now
theirs and so he says as he appears to
them after his resurrection verse
36 now as they said these things Jesus
himself stood in the midst of them and
said to them peace peace to
you the
blessedness of knowing
Christ the blessedness of knowing Christ
is risen the blessedness of knowing
Christ went to the cross for your sin
and for mine and paid that debt forever
more and the blessedness of knowing you
have eternal life not that you will have
but you have it now eternal life and
will always live with
God that's
peace last
one spiritual peace is spiritual
fearlessness spiritual
fearlessness see Jesus is promising that
even after his
crucifixion they will be given the Holy
Spirit
now that's critical because it will feel
like what they're about to face is that
they will be
forsaken it will feel like they're going
to be forsaken it will feel like that
they're all going to be ripped to shreds
by the world around them and they very
well may
be the Wolves will come after them
that's
true they're going to receive damage
their things will probably be
confiscated because that often happened
to the Jews that their inheritance was
taken away from them because they began
to believe in Jesus I mean I mean we
read that in Hebrews so we know that
that happened they lost it all I mean
being baptized in the New Testament was
a serious
requirement because you knew you're
going to lose it all no inheritance for
your family anymore it's gone we have
sometimes a rather mild view on this
subject
but he says to them knowing all that is
coming he says in verse 27 of John 14
peace I leave with you my
peace I give to you what's this piece
you're talking about not as the world
gives do I give to you not something
like putting your hand it's not
something that's easy it's nothing like
that
here it is let not your heart be
troubled neither Let It Be
Afraid you've got peace with me you've
got peace with God there's nothing to
fear nothing it's
fearlessness so here's the lesson simply
put and this is what spiritual peace
does for us it literally makes us
spiritually well it makes us spiritually
complete it makes us spiritually
prepared for the battle against Satan
and the wars that are around us it makes
us spiritually one with each other and
with God it makes us spiritually full so
much so that our peace tends to fill the
rooms we're
in and it makes us spiritually blessed
because we're aware of all the time of
what God has done for us in Christ and
it makes us spiritually
Fearless
unafraid of
anything now many who claim faith in
Christ in his cross and his grace for
whatever reason struggle with peace and
they don't have it some of you sitting
here are not at
peace you got turmoil inside all the
time all the time you never feel like
you're where you ought to
be now the truth is that that's not the
way you should think you've
chosen that oh no I can't help it
h you
chosen how many times have I been in
counseling and the number one problem in
counseling is everybody thinks they
can't help the situation that they're in
and it's everybody else's fault but
theirs and nobody wants to take
responsibility and make a choice so
you've been given peace but you got to
choose it got to choose it every day you
got to choose peace you can't just say
well I mean it's a gift but I've got
problems thousands of people each year
visit the Winchester Mansion in San Jose
California it's quite an interesting
structure it's massive that's a
home that's right that's a home
Sarah Winchester the Widow of the gun
maker who made the Winchester right
rifle for 38 years she worked on that
building that house from 1884 to
1922 it was under constant construction
it never stopped there were teams of
Carpenters there every day Masons there
every day workers of every kind there
there every day around the clock
virtually now why well there's various
stories around nobody really knows but
there's a lot of theories that if you go
there they'll talk about why was she
going through all of that well some
believe that Miss Winchester believed
that either the house was haunted or
would be haunted with all the ghost of
the men that have been killed by her
husband's weapons others claim that she
thought that she would not die as long
as she kept
building I have no knowledge of either
of those two things those both seem
quite extensive but here's what I do
know it had 10,000
windows and doorways and stairs that
lead the blank walls it has 160 rooms
and if you had to build it today it
would be over $70 million to build it
and that's just out of wood largely
pointless buildings and shapes within
shapes here's what I know without
knowing anything else she was desperate
for peace and she never found
it
desperate you know people are doing that
a lot with their lives they're building
this they're doing that they try this
they try that they go for this they buy
that let me build this one now and I'll
add this to the house and then I'll have
peace we'll remodel a kitchen and now
we're going to buy a car and now we're
going to go on a vacation and now we're
going to get a new uh clothes and now
we'll try this well let's drink a little
bit let's play a little bit let's go
over here let's try this let's get with
Uncle George and Aunt Susy let's try
this let's try this let's try this let's
try this does it sound familiar because
what you're really saying is I don't
have any
peace
and it's not because it hasn't been
given to you it's because even though
it's a gift to you you didn't make the
choice to walk in
it now like miss wichester my father
sought peace when I was a kid in
alcohol and in
drugs he didn't find
it but then he found
Christ
and I saw
it I stand here
today because I saw
it he became a
deacon Treasurer in the
church and he
preached even at the church that I was
preaching
at spiritual peace can can be yours
today but it can't be yours just because
we say
it can't be yours just because you claim
it that the Holy Spirit grants you peace
you got to choose it it's a gift but you
got to choose it will you choose it it's
offered to you there are people here
who've never given their lives to the
Lord Jesus they never done what the
group did this week the nine who
repented confessed their lord and savior
and were baptized
nine at Camp did that Lord willing we
may have one today and that that would
be wonderful but will you be one of us
we're going to be ready to do it love
for you to be someone if you have never
done it to be baptized into Christ to
look for that peace through Christ
because it is available if you will
choose it won't you choose it as we
stand in as we
sing
