so picture a
good
kind sweet
Christian get this picture in your head
with absolutely no
malice a person that has no hatred in
their heart for
anyone now picture
you attacking them and destroying them
and destroying their
faith why because they never expected it
to come from
you that's what division
does and that's what it feels
like it feels like it comes from someone
that you would never expect it to come
from it's more painful than you could
imagine I had a whole bunch of
suggestions that had gotten from other
church leaders I'm not going to read
those to you I had about 25 and I think
I'll leave that off and move on try not
to be too late too long in the tooth
tonight the
church though is way too important to be
casual about division or to allow a few
to destroy what the whole group
needs I hope you feel that
way I hope you feel like that the what
must survive is the church
I don't need to
survive but the church needs to
survive she could feel that way nothing
is more important than the
church I love Foundation Christian
Academy my wife's worked there for years
on and off I think it's
wonderful but it isn't even close to
being as important as the church the
church is the thing that Jesus died for
and we need to support FCA the best we
can but you need to remember what's the
most important thing always and that's
true for us all so your family is
important to you right your family this
is your family it's critical and we
always must do everything we can to
maintain it 1 Corinthians chapter 3: 16
and 17 says do you not know that you
that's you are the temple of God and
that the spirit of God dwells in you if
anyone destroys the temple of God that
is the Church of the Living God God will
destroy him for the temple of God is
Holy don't mess with the church
ever Church matters more than any one of
us the proof of that is Jesus
himself the church mattered more than
him to him
and he died for it to purchase it so as
Leaders those of you who are in
leadership those of you will be in
leadership as Leaders we must be
unmoved and I mean that literally un
moved during divisive
moments inside of this particular box
you not only must be un moved but Paul
and the eldership he's speaking to he's
trying to get them to think just like he
thinks in this text and Paul's not
moving hopefully you'll never see the
inside this box though I hope that most
of you never know what I'm talking about
but I want to walk through about seven
unmovable ways that we should be as
Leaders those of you are deacons those
your elders those your Bible class
teachers those of you potential leaders
those of you are married to those people
because your position is important if
not more important than the people who
are doing the work because somebody's
got to support the hands of the ones
doing the
work I want to give you seven things
that you should be unmovable in nothing
nothing should ever move you off of
these
things number
one no that's what I just said number
one be unmovable by plots let's listen
to it again verse 17 from molus he sent
to Ephesus and called for the Elders of
the church this is the same church you
read about in The Book of Revelation the
same church we have a book to verse 18
and when they had come to him he said to
them you know from the first day that I
came to Asia in what Manner I always
lived among you he hasn't
changed that's important to recognize he
is immovable or unmovable verse 19
serving the Lord with all humility with
many tears and trials which happen to me
and listen to this by the plotting of
the
Jews there will be plots against you if
you're in church
leadership I've had campaigns raised
against me written campaigns private
campaigns I've had people call me I've
had people threaten me through the years
I promise you if you're in leadership
and you're trying to take care of the
church there will be groups that will
meet
secretly sometimes they will be deacons
because sometimes deacons don't know
that they cannot be double tonged if
you're double tonged right now you
should step down because if you can't
say the same thing to me as you say
behind my back you shouldn't be serving
as a deacon because a deacon must not be
double tonged and I have seen double
tonged deacons work against the elders I
once tried out at a at a church and the
first thing the Deacon said to me I
didn't get that job and I'm grateful
that I did not get that job didn't
really want it but it was in Texas so
don't let it worry you and so uh first
thing this big old Deacon said to me is
we're not on the same page as the
eldership
here
wow what an
admission What a Sad thing there will be
plots against you in leadership
guarantee it number two but you be
unmoved be unmoved by Panic don't ever
panic I know that right now financially
we're a little in a bit in a tight Place
Don't Panic this isn't our church this
isn't the elders Church Elders Don't
Panic this isn't the deacons Church
deacons Don't Panic this isn't even your
church this is God's Church never Panic
about what's happening in the church
verse 20 says how I kept nothing that
was helpful but proclaimed it to you and
taught you publicly and from house to
house even though I knew these people
were plotting against me I wasn't
panicking I wasn't hiding I wasn't
running away
testifying to the Jews and also the
Greeks repentance towards God and Faith
toward our Lord Jesus Christ stay in the
business that we're supposed to be in
and never ever ever Panic don't let fear
grab you it doesn't work and it
shouldn't be done number three be
unmoved by pain there will be painful
moments in church leadership I assure
you you will
cry you will cry over the church I
promise you you will cry over what
people will say to you in the name of
being good to you and good for the
church verse 22 and see now I go Bound
in the spirit to Jerusalem not knowing
the things that will happen to me there
except that the Holy Spirit testifies in
every city saying that chains and
tribulations await me I got trouble
coming my my way folks if you're in
Ministry you got trouble coming your way
verse 24 but none of these things move
me nor do I count my life dear to myself
so that I may finish my race with joy
and the ministry which I receiv received
from the Lord Jesus to testify to the
gospel of the grace of God what a great
statement verse 25 and indeed now I know
that you all among whom I have gone
preaching the kingdom of God will see my
face no more I'm not going to make it
back to you
there's pain ahead and I hate that
that's true I really wish that wasn't
true I really wish that being in
Ministry was not a painful thing that it
wasn't hurtful that people didn't say
horrible things to people who are in
leadership but I don't know how to get
around it it is what it is number
next be unmoved by perusals there's
going to be people who are think they
have the right to evaluate you maybe
they do maybe they don't but they're
going to do it guarantee you you will be
evaluated in Ministry verse 26 therefore
I testify to you this day that I am
innocent of the blood of all men just
know who you are know who you
are not necessarily who they think you
are but know who you are for I have not
shun to declare to you the whole counsel
of God just stick to what you're
supposed to be doing therefore take heed
to yourselves and all the flock among
which the Holy Spirit has made you
overseers Elders listen to that take
heed to yourselves elders and to all the
flock that God has made you an overseer
over to Shepherd the Church of God which
he purchased with his own blood you're
going to be evaluated you're going to be
evaluated you're going to be evaluated
you're going to be evalu you're going to
be judged you're going to be judged
you're going to be judged if you think
you can be an elder and not be judged
you've been smoking something I'm just
is telling you straight up if you're
going to be anything in leadership they
will have you for lunch guaranteed
somebody will even if it's not your
members somebody will I promise you
number
next be un unov be unmoved by the
phonies out there and who are the
phonies in this text the phonies are
your fellow brothers listen to what it
says in verse 29 beginning for I know
this that after my departure Savage
wolves will come in among you not
sparing the flock now these are people
who are not members of The church here
let me let me lay something here now
just so you know this because uh we've
talked about in the offices many times
white knows what I'm fixing to talk
about that is that we are building a fly
trap we are pouring honey out on this
ground once all four buildings are
built every fly within vicinity of here
will want to come
here and take
over are you hearing
me that's not a
maybe that will
happen it will look too good it'll be
worth too much money whenever you build
something wonderful let me ask you this
question do you think there's anybody on
the planet that would love to take over
the United States of
America okay why because it's pretty
cool right this is going to be pretty
wonderful and somebody that isn't worth
listening to will want to take it over
promise there are always phonies that
will come in from the outside but that's
not what I'm talking about right now I'm
just laying that in here the one I'm
really talking about is in verse 30 also
from among
yourselves men will arise speaking
perverse things to draw away the
disciples after themselves so there will
be members of the church that we think
are good people at first and they will
potentially try to create a little
following of their own and sometimes
that happens within the eldership
because that's who he's talking to here
there will always be and I'm sorry but
there will always be phonies that are
not real
disciples that we thought
were be aware and be unmovable don't let
that bother you don't let it move you
away from what the rest of us have to do
and I'm sorry we have to deal with them
but you got to deal with them just keep
doing the right
thing that's all you can do and by the
way the phonies are a minority and you
could always just do the right thing and
ignore them to a degree number
next be unmoved by philosophies there's
always going to be something that
somebody's going to bring up new
okay there's always going to be
something somebody will find something
new and they'll want you to believe it
and go along with it therefore watch and
remember that for the three years I did
not cease to warn everyone night and day
with tears what you warning them for
this is the Church of the Lord there's
no problems here verse 32 so now
Brethren I commend you to God and to the
word of his grace which is able to be
build you up and give you an inheritance
among those who are Sanctified here's
the truth there's always going to be
someone coming up with something to make
everybody listen to them so just be
aware and don't be moved stick to what
you can read right here believe what it
says right here teach what it says right
here you'll be okay you'll be
fine number to last and that is be un
moved by prosperity
this has always been a problem in the
church you may not be aware of how much
of a problem it is but it's always been
a problem in the church now I'm not
saying that poverty isn't a problem
poverty is a problem poverty is
something we always fight we're always
trying to help people who aren't doing
as well financially and we need to be
aware of that we always need to be we
never need to develop a evil eye where
we see somebody as not being the person
that they should be and so we're not
going to help them that's a terrible
thing to become we mustn't go down that
path pathway but on the other hand uh
while people who don't have as much can
sometimes be a problem people who have a
lot can be an even greater problem as
there's not a lot I need to say about
that I think you can go to James chapter
2 and see that that could be a problem
you could go to 1 Timothy chapter 6 and
see that's a problem you could go to
Revelations you can see it's a problem
riches sometimes mess you up and so we
we all Chase it we're like a Wy coyote
forever chasing the riches and if we
ever get it we're going to be ruined but
that's what we think we need verse 33 I
have coveted no one's silver or gold or
apparel and that's an interesting thing
it does there have you noticed what it
says he doesn't just not covet the money
that they have he doesn't covet the way
they dress pay attention to that folks
verse 34 yes you yourselves know that
these hands have provided for my
necessities and for those who were with
me so I didn't just take care of myself
it took care of the guys who are working
with me verse 33 I've shown you in every
way by laboring like this that you must
support the weak so I was doing that and
he's saying and I'm I'm encouraging you
to do that so we always have the ones
who are worse off financially and
remember the words of our Lord Jesus
Christ that he said is more blessed to
give than to receive and and that's
where we're we're basically ending this
the study tonight and that is that the
truth is is that you should not be moved
by Prosperity because the tendency is
and listen
carefully the tendency is we sometimes
make people Elders because they have
money or deacons because they have
money and we tend to lean into the
people who have
money by the way some of you like to
make friends with people in this church
because they have a little money I'm
going tell you a little secret it
doesn't rub off
they're not sitting there going oh I
can't wait I'm going to give them more
what I got that's not happening so wake
up to that so the lesson tonight is
pretty simple don't let plots move you
don't let panic move you don't let pain
move you don't let perusal somebody
looking at you carefully don't let it
bother you don't let the phonies move
you off of what you don't let some new
philosophy don't let it move you don't
let prosperity of some member move your
way you know too many folks are worried
about the
troublemakers and not the
peacemakers some would give the church
away some would give the church a way to
have it their
way there's a time for the church to not
change but there's always a Time for The
Sinner to
change there's a time when the church
should not do anything
different that's most the
time why quite honestly this is the
truth I don't want to come here and not
know what's fixing to happen do
you I don't want to come here and be
shocked what did they just do do you you
know what I like about church it's
boring
it's the same as it was last week two
songs prayer another song The Lord's
supper and I love that I'm sorry I think
that's awesome I'm I'm sick of
everything being different every time
you turn around I love the boring bring
it on let it be the same as it was
because it has nothing to do with that
the song leader doesn't have to be good
at it doesn't have to be good at it the
prayer leader doesn't have to be good at
it the sermon doesn't have to be any
good well that's usually that's good to
know a it saying I mean so it doesn't
have to be good why for me to get
anything out of it because I'm going to
be here to worship
God and that how good it is has almost
nothing to do with my worship almost
nothing except that if it gets too bad
it's
distracting but if it gets too good is
distracting
too leaders listen be unmoved and you
say stuff like that and it sounds like
that's the cause of trouble and I'm
telling you no that's the cure for
trouble in Luke 5:51 it says this now
came to pass when the time had come for
him to receive be received up that he
steadfastly set his face to go to
Jerusalem but they did not receive him
because his face was set for the journey
to Jerusalem and yet he was
inflexible about going to the
Cross he wasn't going to be moved off of
that folks sometimes you need to be
inflexible 1 Corinthians 15:58 be
steadfast immovable always abounding in
the work of the Lord knowing that your
labor is not in vain Jesus ended the
division at the cost of his life
Ephesians chapter 2 says say for he
himself is our peace who has made both
one and has broken down the middle wall
of
separation and having abolished in his
flesh the enmity that is the division
between the different people of the
world the Jews and the rest of the world
that is the law of Commandments
contained in ordinances so as to
creating himself one new man from the
two thus making peace and that he might
reconcile them both to God in one body
through the cross cross thereby putting
to death the enmity so Jesus wasn't just
about saving us he was about uniting us
and he was Resolute about it but we must
not in the
division at the cost of the existence of
the
church all right let me tell you a story
I don't know if this is true but it's
told as if it were true John Wesley
would tell this story
John Wesley said he had a
dream and in his
dream it made him very concerned because
he was seeing so much rise of
denominations at that time and there
were a lot of various denominational
churches being put together at that time
John Wesley said he dreamed that he was
By Angels or something ushered him
literally to the gates of hell and at
the gates of hell or
Hades he called out are there any
Presbyterians in there and the
screeching Cry came back
yes are there any Baptists in there he
cried out and the screeing Cry came back
yes or are there any episcopalians in
there
yes are there any Catholics in there yes
are there any members of the Church of
Christ in there yes are there any
methodists in there
yes he was terribly distressed he's like
what in the world and this this Angel
flew him again at this time he took him
to the gates of
heaven and at the Gates of Heaven he
cried out are there any Presbyterians in
there
no are there any Baptists in there
no are there any episcopalians in there
no
are there any Catholics in there no are
there any members of the Church of
Christ in there
no are there any methodists in there
no he was more distressed than ever then
he yelled out who then is in
there there are only Christians in
here we must
unite we must unite in
Christ and there is nothing more
important than our unity and the
church fight for the church stand for
the church support the church don't let
these things move you off if you're
going to be in leadership you have to be
steadfast you have to be immovable for
the sake of the unity of the body of
Christ because Unity is all we've got in
the final analysis that's going to make
this a church that will last in the
future so come be one of us who are
Knuckleheads one of us Knuckleheads us
Knuckleheads just say you know
what I'm not going to give into it I'm
not going to be moved away and I'm not
going to give up what I believe I'm
going to stick with it until it's the
last thing I do and we're going to
maintain this
church
does that sound like something near far
amen if you're here to die and you
haven't given yourself to the Lord Jesus
then you could just be a
Christian repenting of your sins
confessing the name of Christ nothing
more nothing less than just a Christian
want you come if you need to while we
stand and while we
sing
