you know some questions seem unnecessary
I I would even say sometimes the
questions are too invasive or even
offensive but now if you're pulled over
by one of the deputies let me recommend
to you these videos You' Seen On TV are
not the path you want to follow if
you're pulled over by a deputy in our
area I highly recommend if he asked your
name to tell him your name to give him
your IDE
to give him your insurance papers and
proof of ownership of the car and not
argue with him those may seem like
invasive questions but according to the
law we live in he has the right to ask
those so they're not invasive and that's
all I'm saying just I've seen too many
people get in trouble because they just
won't answer questions so questions are
important but now sometimes the
questions seem invasive I heard of this
one guy who went to the Red Cross and
this was his comment afterwards he left
in a huff he said I tried donating blood
today never again there just too many
questions whose blood is it where did
you get it from why is it in a jar you
would think they would just be happy to
get it but no too many questions I'm not
going
back as a minister I'm always asked
questions and a lot of them are really
hard questions it happens all the time
keegin had me in his uh young people's
class answering questions and and quite
honestly uh I I've teach stuff sometimes
that draws attention and makes people
want to ask more questions I was
teaching on marage Mor and remarriage
recently and and opened up to a lot of
hard questions uh preachers answer
questions quite honestly I have
questions I mean you know I'm like that
Emily Baker on YouTube I have questions
most of my questions you don't even want
to hear and you really don't want to
deal with them cuz they're in a
different place I'm just asking kind of
weird stuff most of the time but
preachers have to answer hard questions
and usually they're in the fourer and
I've got somewhere between five to 10
seconds to give you that answer and it's
it's so you'll ask a really complicated
one and I've Got 5 to 10 seconds so that
you can keep moving because there's
somebody behind you and they weren't
really planning on you standing there
forever so I'm just saying that's the
way it goes uh questions are not easy to
answer uh how are we supposed to answer
questions anyway I mean have you ever
thought about that have you ever thought
about how when someone asks us questions
about what we believe what's supposed to
be our approach well that's the passage
that we were just looking at 1 Peter
3:15 must sanctify the Lord God in your
heart and always be ready so you're
supposed to try to be ready to give a
defense everyone who ask you of the hope
that's within you with meekness and fear
and here's some rules if you really want
to be a good question answerer here's
some basic rules of answering a question
first you duplicate what they just said
because often you don't hear what the
question is or you don't understand the
question so when someone asks you a
question it's good to repeat the
question back to them duplicate that
question to make sure you understood
what their question is I hear you saying
or I understand you just ask me that
sort of thing and then show some
appreciation well I I thank you for that
question that's a good question I heard
that question lately so appreciate the
person for asking a question don't
rebuke them for asking you a question
appreciate the question and then
interrogate them a little bit by doing
this because they've been thinking about
their question you haven't they just
walk up on you and they've been thinking
about it so what you do is you kind of
turn it on them well what is it that you
think uh the answer to this is and kind
of try to drag that out of them that
will help you and give you a second or
two to think about what your answer is
going to be to and then uncomplicate the
answer as much as possible when somebody
ask you a question try to make it as
simple don't make it complicated try to
bring it down where it makes sense and
it's simple and finally uh use a little
self-deprecation there's this idea that
we all think because we go to church we
can answer all the questions it's not so
I can't answer all your questions none
of us can you can by the way you can ask
a question that would take a scholar
months to answer anyway so I mean just
because you can ask a hard question
doesn't mean you've thought it through
and sometimes it's almost impossible to
answer I remember one time I was skating
just give you an example you offend
people with the answer you gift so you
got to be careful I wasn't very careful
I was skating one time you know about
skating Keegan so yeah Keegan's a great
skater did y'all see these pictures this
last anyway so I was I I was skating and
I had just started skating I was really
lousy at it I mean I was falling down
more than I was standing up and then
there was a girl there that apparently
knew me better than I knew her and I
said she said to me says uh well let's
do that whip thing do youall know what
the whip thing is where you grab on and
you go faster and faster you go in that
Circle and you just hang h on for dear
life man I could barely get across the
floor and I said well some of us can
esape better than others of us oh no no
she didn't take that the way I'm in it
she took it that I thought I could
really skate good and I started
apologizing she never accepted I don't
think we ever talked again so I just
think sometimes you can offend people
with the answer you give when you mean
no harm so try to be good with your
answering of questions and so this is
the first in the series on uh I believe
questions that deserve an answer we're
going be about four or five of these and
today's a very fundamental question
about what to do so here we're going to
do it number
one so we're asking the question what
shall we do the background of the
question as we look at it here is the
Messiah the Lord had just been crucified
he' just been raised about 40 days
before this and so this is the first
time this has really been preached in
the open with evidence of the
resurrection and that what they had done
to the Christ the son of the Living God
and after he Peter convinces them that
they had had a part in putting to death
the Christ the son of the Living God but
that he had risen from the dead and then
he had gone to heaven and he was seated
at the right hand of the father on high
they asked this question verse 37 in
Acts chapter 2 now when they heard this
they were cut to the heart I mean if you
realize you just killed the Savior that
God the Lord God had sent in human form
and said to Peter and the rest of the
Apostles men and Brethren what shall we
do what are we going to do with that now
the response comes in the next little
section and so let me read that it's a
very simple response beginning of verse
38 then Peter said unto them so I'm
fixing to tell you what you need to do
now that you realize that this is the
savior of the world that you killed and
you've turned your back against the will
of God right the will of God he says
then Peter said unto them repent which
means to change your heart be sorrowful
and change your heart and let every one
of you be baptized that is be immersed
underwater in the name of Jesus Christ
why for the remission of sins and you
shall receive the gift of the holy
spirit that is God's spirit for you
verse 39 for the promise this salvation
promise is to you and to your children
and to all who are far off that includes
Us Praise the Lord as many as the Lord
Our God will call how many that'll be we
don't know verse 40 and with many other
words he testified and exhorted them
saying be saved so this is salvation be
saved from this perverse generation the
world is perverse as you well know verse
41 then those who gladly received his
word were baptized inm and water and
that day about 3,000 Souls were added to
them so what shall we do if we're not
right with God it's very simple you can
read it there simply yourself you
repent and you're baptized you change
your
heart and you're immersed in water for
the remission of your sins and the gift
of the Holy Spirit second question that
I think goes right to the heart of what
we're talking about here is not what
shall we do but what do you want me to
do what do you want me to do now the
background of this is in Acts chapter n
the Messiah and Lord
had well before this been risen the
church was fully established and yet now
we have an opposition coming from the
Jewish people they antagonists people
who intend to try to remove Christianity
from Judaism because they just saw it as
a sect of the Jews so they want to
literally eliminate it somehow and among
them was a man named Saul who later
would be called Paul but Saul is an
antagonist and he is doing everything he
can to make these people give up on
Jesus he's making them blaspheme he's
doing everything he can he's beating
them he's putting them in prison he's
he's doing everything he can to
eliminate Christianity from the face of
the Earth that's who he is he is not a
follower of Christ at all he doesn't
believe in Christ at
all and that's why this is the
shock because of verse
six he saw the Lord in a blinding
light and he fell to the
ground and the Lord spoke to
him and so he verse six so he trembling
and astonished said
Lord what do you want me to
do then the Lord said to him rise and go
into the city that's Damascus he'd end
up in a house on the Straight Street
there's only one Street in Damascus
that's straight even to this day and it
literally is straight and that's why
it's called a straight Street and you
will be told what you must do so there
was something he must do now remember he
didn't believe in Jesus up to this point
now he has to believe in Jesus I mean he
just saw him hasn't got a choice on that
but now what am I supposed to do he's
clearly struggling with that and so
let's look at the response it's actually
in two passages we'll start in Acts
chapter 9 and verse 8 then Saul arose
from the ground because he's basically
blind at this point and when his eyes
were open he saw no one the light was so
bright it took his eyes side away for a
while but they led him by the hand and
brought him into Damascus verse 10 of
that same chapter now there was a
certain disciple to Damascus named
ananas which refers to by the way his
name literally means Grace from the Lord
and to him the Lord said in a vision an
anas so the Lord knew his name and he
said Here I Am Lord so the Lord said to
him arise and go to the street call
straight and inquire in the house of
Judas that's not judas's scariot Judas
was a common name Judas for one called
Saul of Tarsus for behold he is praying
well I would be too he's blind been
blind now for about 3 days hadn't eaten
anything scared to death still his whole
life's upside down because the very
thing that he didn't believe was true
turns out it was and he's been very
zealous he's a very dedicated Jew verse
12 and in the vision he has seen a man
named ananas that's you coming in and
putting his hands on him so that he
might receive his sight well that would
be a really important thing for me if
I'd gone blind yes I'd seen Jesus but
being blind might be a higher priority
for just a moment here because I'd like
to be able to see again right CU
crawling around is not something I want
to do the rest of my life verse 17 and
ananas went his way and entered the
house and laying his hands on him he
said brother Saul the Lord Jesus who
appeared to you on the road as you came
has sent me that you may receive your
sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit
Verse 18 immediately there fell from his
eyes something like scales wow so
there's a true
burn something like scales and he
received his sight at once I mean just
he could
see and he arose and was baptized where
did that come in where'd that come from
what that baptism thing come up for
what' that have to do with anything here
he said he had to he'd be told what he
must do in Acts 22:
12-6 it says then a certain ananas G
Saul or later Paul he calls himself is
now retelling this story in Acts 22 and
this is the way he retells it the first
way is the way Luke just tells it this
is the way Luke tells that Paul would
tell the story verse 12 then a certain
ananas a devout man according to the law
having a good testimony with all the
Jews who dwelt there came to me and he
stood and said to me brother Saul it
sounds familiar doesn't it brother Saul
receive your sight and at that same hour
I looked up at him wow that was quick
verse 14 then he said the god of our
father so there's a little more than we
got in chapter nine he said the god of
our fathers has chosen you that you
should know his will and see the just
one that is Jesus right and hear the
voice of his mouth Saul Saul why are you
persecuting me right we'll come back to
that in a moment in verse 15 it says for
you will be his witnesses to all men of
what you have seen and heard by the way
one of the reasons we believe that Jesus
Christ is real and that he died and he
rose again the n one of the number one
reasons we know it's true is because of
this man the fact that he was so
radically changed this is clear evidence
something happened here even the people
who are Skeptics recognize something
happened here for a man to make this
change verse 16 and now why are you
waiting so he's heard
stuff why are you waiting waiting on
what some things he had been told and
why are you waiting what had been told
must have been something to do with
baptism somebody told him already and
why are you waiting arise he's now being
told arise and be baptized that is
immersed in water and wash away your
sins you mean that can happen not by
washing just in water but by the promise
of God yes when God tells you to do
something that's what happens when you
do it wash away your sins calling on the
name of the Lord so what do you want me
to do we saw what you want we what would
you have us
you know but now it's what me well in
this case it's be
baptized wash away your sins and be a
witness to the whole
world H so that's what do you want me to
do let's look at another question it's
getting in more narrow we started out
what shall we do now it's what do you
want me to do now let's look at what
must I do interesting how the Bible
covers all of these isn't it what must
must I do to be saved the background of
this text this text is in Acts chapter
16 is that he was now a a man who had
mistreated The Messengers of God if you
will he had imprisoned The Messengers of
God this is literally Paul and others
that are with him and so he is now in a
prison
because of this Paul and Silas are there
and then there's this earthquake while
they're singing and praising God the
shackles are released and
the prison is
opened and so the guard thinks they've
all run away he says no no no no no
don't run don't run and so I don't know
what he meant when he asked this
question okay I don't know if he meant
saved eternally
but I do know he didn't want to die
because all the guys have run away cuz
they hadn't so he asked this question so
he doesn't even probably know what he
means by this question but he asked this
question in verse 30 and he brought them
out and said s what must I do to be
saved now he heard that singing about
Jesus and the gospel and God and all
that so maybe he' made a connection I
don't know but now he wants to be saved
whatever that
means right by the way I don't
understand it all either and I want to
be saved no matter what it means amen
amen so what's his response everybody
makes this real simple but you need to
read the whole text let's read the
response okay the response begins in
verse 31 so they said here's how you be
here's how you saved believe on the Lord
Jesus Christ and you will be saved in
your household well there it is I'm sure
he just believe right then no he
couldn't have he' never heard of Jesus
Christ didn't know who in the world he
was he couldn't have immediately been
saved right then if you wanted to you
can't believe in Jesus is an abstract
concept you got to know something about
him if you're going to believe in him
you can't believe in him that way
there's no say that's like me saying you
could be saved if you believed in a a
red bunny rabbit well what kind what you
know you'd be like that doesn't make any
sense so that's the reason the next
verse says this then they spoke the word
of the Lord to him you have to actually
have some explanation have to have some
context he spoke the word of the Lord to
him and to all who were in his house so
they heard about Jesus they understood
the word of the Lord verse 33 that's the
only way you can believe you can't
believe an abstract you have to believe
the word and verse 33 and he took them
the same hour of the night and washed
their stripes and immediately he and all
his family were baptized now here's an
interesting thing so that they were told
to just believe but to believe they had
to hear the word now immediately upon
hearing the word they are baptized verse
33 what connection does that have well
if you've been following me I think you
already know the connection but let's
look at verse 34 and explains a little
clearer it says now when he had brought
them into his house he set food before
them and he rejoiced why did he Rejoice
he was saved how did he know he saved
having believed in God with all his
house and here's what you can't separate
belief in God from being baptized
apparently because it's exactly what he
did when he believed he was baptized so
what must I do to be saved the answer is
Believe on Jesus Christ but that means
you have to had looked at his word and
that means when you look at his word you
need to be baptized that's what the they
did that's how simple it was so here's
the questions that we have received
today they're very simple what shall we
do and we were told to repent and be
baptized for the remission of sins the
gift of Holy Spirit what do you want me
to do and and he arose and he was
baptized and he washed away his sins
Phill with the Holy Spirit he became a
witness of the word of life and that's
who Saul was and then what must I do to
be saved and the answer to that was to
believe on Jesus but to do that I needed
to hear the words concerning the Lord
Jesus and immediately upon hearing the
words concerning the Lord Jesus
somewhere in that I was taught that I
needed to be baptized and I was
immediately you know my first grade
teacher her name was Miss
Bobo I know it's kind of a clown name
but her name was Miss Bobo I loved her I
thought she's the greatest thing on
Earth at the time but it's the only
teacher I'd ever had cuz we didn't have
you know you know any schooling
underneath that I'm from the sticks okay
so we didn't have schooling before that
first grade was the first time I ever
went to school okay I know that sounds
strange to this generation but uh one
she thing she taught me that I've never
forgotten and that is this and she said
it so many times she said this never
stop asking
questions never stop asking questions
everything is subject to being
questioned question it all ask questions
over and over again so I actually
believed
her and I asked questions about
everything in fact I still I still do it
uh if in fact we're in a Bible class and
y'all know me the ones who know me if
somebody makes an emphatic question in
the Bible class you'll hear me say
something contrary to it because I'm
going to ask a question I'm sitting
there going really really really you can
prove that really and so I know some of
you think I disagree with you I agree
with you about everything but I probably
disagree with you about everything I I
immediately question in my head whatever
is taught I don't care what it is if
it's being taught I'm question I'm
trying to find out what the truth is
amen I just want to know the truth uh so
questions are important I really believe
in questions I'm not against questions I
believe everything we believe can be
questioned because I have there is
nothing that I believe that I haven't
questioned and tried to find out whether
or not it's even true or not there's
nothing and I'm still willing to
question it I'm willing to question how
I've taught this text this
morning okay absolutely did I do it
right and so if somebody thinks they're
a Bible scholar I'm even more quick to
ask them a question in my head even if I
don't ask them personally so let's go
just a little bit deeper on this
concept so if you paid attention I I
think you'll understand why fix to go
where I'm going now and that is Frank
Viola quoted Char about Charles Fuller
who lived in 1887 to 1968 and he said
literally he used the phrase personal
savior thousands of times oldfashioned
Revival hour radio program that aired
from 1937 to 1968 his program reached
from North America to every spot on the
globe at the time of his death he was
heard on more than 650 radio stations
around the world today the phrase
personal savior is used
pervasively uh and some people make fun
of it okay I get it it doesn't sound
biblical at first it sounds
denominational okay and these are
denominational people I'm talking about
here but if you allow me just a moment
because I ask questions about everything
is it really right to mock personal
savior because I if you paid attention
to what we just looked
at what were the personal
pronouns
we
me
I you see it's clearly a relationship
we're supposed to have and it's supposed
to be
Personal Jesus knows what we did he
knows our guilt and it's
personal our personal offense against
God our personal
sin our personal guilt acts 2:23 you
have taken by Lawless hands and have
crucified and put to death who killed
Jesus you did it's
personal it's not the Jews or the Romans
you did it you're sin in it and Hebrews
7 indicates we studied this a week ago I
was there when Adam ate of the tree and
so I'm personally responsible for that
and I crucified Jesus I'm personally
responsible for that I must have a
personal belief a personal repentance a
personal baptism I can't somebody else
can't do it for me not only that but
Jesus calls
me by name so we did it but he calls me
by name
Saul Saul you mean he knew his name he's
an absolute antagonist against Faith
Saul I know you Saul Saul he's talking
to you there Saul Saul Saul why
persecutest thou me he's talking to you
he's talking to me the call is personal
personal antagonist against the faith
there are people sitting here right now
who in their head probably make in fun
of the things that's being taught oh yes
there's always antagonist personal shock
you mean God would reach out to somebody
who's in Rebellion against God that's
who he's reaching out to all the time
personal blindness personal heeding is
what we need personal Grace
ananas the Lord's
Grace personal baptism Romans chapter 6
you ever notice how Paul talks about his
baptism his baptism he talks about it
when he writes the book of Romans Romans
chap 6: 3 and 4 or do you not know that
as many of us as we're baptized into
Christ Jesus were baptized into his
death that's what happened to me saying
therefore we were buried with him
through baptism into death just as
Christ was raised from the dead by the
glory of the father even so we also
should walk in newness of life that's a
personal baptism but not only that so
Jesus knows what we did and Jesus calls
me by name and he opens the jail
amen John 10:3 verse3 to him the
doorkeeper
opens and the sheep hear his
voice and he calls his own Sheep by
name
Rex
Rex and he leads them
out Luke 8 Luke 4:8
he pronounces Liberty to the
captives those captivated by sin
recovery of sight to the blind those who
cannot see the truth to set at Liberty
those who are oppressed by sin and the
devil so it's personal
jails we all have
them we've all been locked up by our
personal issues personally locked doors
personal captivity ities personal
obsessions but there's also personal
Liberty and personal freedom personal
belief and personal baptism so salvation
whether you like that terminology or not
is very
personal
we
me
I Jesus wants to be your personal Savior
and in this text what are we mean me I
to do we me I is to repent and be
baptized for the remission of my sins
and the gift of the Holy Spirit we may I
must be baptized and wash away our sins
calling on the name of the Lord become a
witness to the rest of the world we me I
must believe in Jesus but to believe in
Jesus you have to study this
thing over and over and over again and
then be
baptized in the name of
Jesus simple lesson simple answer to
questions you know the answer wherever
you are what you should do
now it's up to you if you wish to
participate and get involved and go a
little deeper we'll be happy to help you
any way we can make it known while we
stand and while we
sing
okay
