so now I don't know about you I don't
know what you know uh what your
experience is I was the one of the songs
we sang was it bless be the time did we
sing bless be the time and as we're
doing that I'm thinking about all the
congregations that I've been to I know
we're about to lose the powers tonight
and I hate that and they're going to go
off to another congregation how many
congregations have you been to have you
thought about that how many different
places how many fellowships have you
known how many people have you known in
all the different churches that you've
gone to through the years and there's so
many people as I was singing that I was
thinking about different ones at
different congregations that I'd been to
that uh uh uh in fact I don't know if
you know this we Deb and I are planning
planning uh to go to Africa in March
we'll be gone most of March in Africa to
check on uh the work we support there uh
partners for Africa and also to do some
visiting with the Brethren across Africa
that we know pretty well so that's
that's the plan right now and uh why did
I bring that up I have no idea what I
brought that up for I'm 66 because of
what Unity that's it oh yeah something
about Unity
anyway but yes and so we're going to be
doing that because the whole idea of of
being with Brethren is such a wonderful
thing and the unity across the
Brotherhood is an awesome thing and uh
and and I have seen this because just
being in the position that I'm in I got
to be honest with you and those of you
who've been in leadership you know this
is true many and and I'd have to say too
many churches I've seen have
split we've been very fortunate here and
I pray God always blesses this church I
mean we've gone through some difficult
times I mean just moving here right
that's tough enough time and to maintain
Unity during times like this quite
honestly is a is Quite a feat it really
is uh God bless all of you but there's
this stories many many stories out there
of people that didn't do so well I heard
of a man uh that was stranded on a
desert Island and uh they finally
rescued him after years and years and
when they the guy went off got off the
boat to go see him on his Island and he
and he saw there were three Huts there
he said what's that about why you have
three Huts he said well this is the hut
that I I live in I sleep in that Hut he
said well what's this other Hut about he
says oh that's where I go to church
every Sunday I go to church right there
he said well what's that third one I say
sh that's where I used to go to church
so uh I think there's there's always
that tendency to kind of have a bad
feeling if you're not careful uh toward
another congregation now Chuck swindall
who's not a member of the Churches of
Christ but he had a book called The the
grace Awakening and he writes about a
church he says had a vibrant Ministry
was really going guns he said but there
arose a uh a disagreement within the
body there and it was actually a small
thing but it got bigger and bigger and
bigger and bigger and finally the it
ended up in being a split and so these
this huge church that he says is doing
great things there's now two separate
churches and they go on they they both
still exist now he said but you wouldn't
think that it would have happened but
ultimately that vibrant strong doing a
lot of good things well these two now
don't do near the kind of work that the
that the first church did do you know
what the disagreement was I'm sure
you're interested what the disagreement
was over it was just a small thing but
it got out of hand here's what it was
about they disagreed over whether uh the
coffee
that they had for Fellowship y'all don't
know about this right whether the coffee
should be served by the back door or in
the fellowship
hall that's where it started at so you
may think that all the division that's
out there is over Doctrine I'm going to
talk about Doctrine tonight but that's
not normally the case the majority of
them are over other things an argument
started at one church and in Split
because of potluck uh a lady brought a
conil salad y'all ladies know what a
conill salad is do this I don't know
what a conill salad is I'm reading okay
a lady brought a conill salad made with
Cool Whip and not real whipping cream
and that led to a church
split I don't know how I'm just reading
it uh there have been churches that have
split over whether the Lord's Supper in
and by the way the Lord's Supper is a
touchy subject you may not be aware of
it but it is a very very touchy subject
uh so churches have split over whether
the Lord's Supper uh should be served
from the front to the back or from the
back to the
front I don't know why that mattered but
it mattered to them uh one Church split
over who was the real preacher
apparently they had end up hiring two
preachers and so in the process one
group got behind one preacher and one
group got behind another preacher and so
on a given Sunday this is what literally
happened they both got up the preachers
and led the singing simultaneously
singing different songs one group
singing one group of songs one group
singing another group of songs both of
them tried to out sing the other so they
got really loud probably the loudest
they ever sung before both preachers
then got up and started preaching
simultaneously both trying to out preach
the other do you know how it ended it
broke out into a brawl and the police
were
called church folks yeah I've seen I've
seen uh not Church of Christ but I I saw
six police cars pull up to one church
because they had a uh elders and deacons
meeting no it's just a it's a business
meeting prin is uh frine uh founder of
river Life Ministries International
Conference speaker and author now he's a
denominational guy but I thought this is
an interesting quote I'm gonna quote it
the way it says it even though I don't
agree some of the terminology that's in
it so you understand that before I read
it okay it says I I took a survey asking
Christian leaders and Ley why they
believe church is split I received more
responses to this subject than any
previous subject from my best analysis
about five uh percent blamed the pastors
saying that the pastors were in a
serious sin heavy-handed uh weren't in
the River or refused accountability to
anyone I don't know what that means word
in the river 20% wrote simply to
encourage us to write the book however
an amazing 75% of the people that
responded spoke of being deeply
devastated by a split some calling it
hell on Earth quote unquote these people
usually wrote long in uh oblivious uh
painful emails that's the word he uses
they grieve for their pastors the law of
friends and the quote unquote death of
their Church These individuals said the
division arose from and every one of
them said it arose from a subordinate
leader or group within the church and
they that subordinate group who wanted
to have the lead caused the
split that should be a message right 75%
said that as is starting to be obvious
most splits have no doctrinal basis
but they all believe they do
um let's get to this church division has
always been a serious concern and a
plague and it's talked about in the
scriptures John 1720 and 21 I do not
pray for these alone but also for those
who will believe in me through their
word that they may be one apparently
that was a concern of Jesus as you
father are in me and I in you that they
may also be one in US that the world may
believe that you sent me acts 15:39 puts
it this way then then the contention
this is Paul and Barnabas became so
sharp that they parted from one another
Paul and Barnabas great men couldn't be
together and work together anymore 1
Corinthians chap 1 and verse 10 says now
I plead with you Brethren by the name of
our Lord Jesus Christ that you all speak
the same thing and there be no divisions
among you but that you be perfectly
joined together in the same mind and in
the same judgment Galatians 5:1 15 but
if you bite and devour one another
beware lest you be consumed by one
another you can destroy yourself and the
other person Titus 3:10 rejected device
of man after the first and the second
admonition so it's not a new phenomenon
it's been around uh the challenge is the
future Church and U we need to develop
preachers Elders deacons teachers and
active members who can uh not just do
the work but stay United so the topic I
think is critical since we all need to
find a way to work with everybody Inside
the Box don't you think uh what leaders
should do when friction arise is a
lesson I think we all need so that's
what I want to focus on it's just three
little lessons Stay With Me me number
one focus on the Precedence of
experience if you want to solve a
problem that comes up one of the most
important things that resolves problems
is your personal experience with a
similar problem it's always good advice
it's always somebody wants to hear it
listen to it in this text and I'm going
to begin in verse six we read till verse
5 a while ago verse six says now the
apostles and Elders came together to
consider this matter and when there been
much dispute Peter rose up and said to
them men and Brethren you know that a
good while ago God chose Among Us that
by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the
word of the gospel and believe that's
the experience right and I spoke to the
Gentiles this is Peter so they're having
a problem with what to do with the
Gentiles verse eight so God who knows
the hearts acknowledged them by giving
them the Holy Spirit just as he did did
to us and made no distinctions between
us and Them purifying their hearts by
faith now therefore why do you test God
putting a yoke on the neck of the
disciples which neither our fathers nor
we were able to Bear we weren't able to
perfectly obey the law we're saved by
grace through faith verse 11 but we
believe that through the grace of our
Lord Jesus Christ we shall be saved in
the same manner as they then all the
multitude kept silent and listen to
Barnabas and Paul declaring again
experience how many miracles and wonders
God had worked through them among the
Gentiles one of the best things you can
do I mean you hear it in the Supreme
Court I mean it's the thing what was the
experience watch your experience 1
Corinthians 2 and: 6 talks about we
speak wisdom among those who are mature
maturity comes from experience just from
life from having experienced a lot of
things Philippians 3:15 as many as are
mature have this mind spiritual maturity
takes time too even if you mature at a
phenomenal rate you aren't really mature
in the first year of your conversion and
everybody knows that and probably not
for a few years uh First Timothy 3:6 not
a novice less being puffed up with pride
you fall in the condemnation of the
devil so we don't make men Elders who
haven't been a Christian for very long
the quickest that I've ever heard is
three years and act chapter 14 but
likely those men who were made Elders
within 3 years had been Elders in the
synagogue so it wasn't like they were
brand new on the thing and by the way
you can't baptize somebody and read them
a few verses and they're suddenly so
mature that they can handle the
eldership I promise you it's a little
harder than you think Hebrews chapter 5
and verse 14 solid food belongs to those
who are full age that is those who by
reason of use have their senses
exercised that means you got to try
things to discern both good and evil I
love young people I love young people I
wish it was possible for all the young
people who have all the energy to run
the church it would be the dumbest thing
we could ever do is turn the church over
to young people that is not a smart move
it is there is a reason for elders being
older men it just really is the truth
I'm sorry I don't mean any disrespect
you young people are as smart as a whip
you're probably smarter than most the
rest of us your brain works faster than
the rest of us that's not even up for a
discussion the question is what I'm
talking about right now you don't have
the experience yet of having bumped your
head enough times to know what to do
when things go wrong so thinking inside
the church box let us prepare for
theological friction because there's
going to be that from time to time in
the church by focusing on the Precedence
of experience what have you experienced
in the church and you say say well that
means that the church is like uh it
never changes amen and
amen number
two focus on the Precedence of exod
Jesus what does the Bible say how do you
read it listen to this text and we're
discussing in this text just so you
don't forget what was up it was whether
or not Gentiles who are coming to Faith
must also be circumcised right that's
the underlying thing that's being
discussed now so what does the Bible
suggest about that is there anything and
acts 15 beginning verse 13 and after
they had uh that they had become silent
James answered saying men and Brethren
listen to me so I'm going to give you
something on the Bible now he says in
verse 14 Simon has declared how God at
the first visited the Gentiles to take
out of them a people for his name that
is the experience we've had verse 15 and
with this the words of the prophets
agree so now let's look at the
scriptures and see what the scriptures
say about that very subject just as it
is written verse 16 after this I will
return and will rebuild the Tabernacle
of David which has fallen down I will
rebuild its ruins and I will set it up
and you say what is rebuilding the
Tabernacle to David have anything to do
with what we're talking about here
you'll get it in a minute he's worried
about the tail end of this verse which
comes from Amos chapter 9: 11 11 and 12
you got to know Bible and you can't just
know the whole verse sometimes you have
to know one little part that's in that
verse that says so much that you can't
miss it and that takes a lot of
knowledge sometimes to actually have
that verse 17 here he gives it so the
rest of mankind he's quoting the rest of
Amos 9 and he says so that the rest of
mankind May seek the Lord and here's the
important part even all the Gentiles
who are called by my name says the Lord
who does all these things so Verse 18
known to God from eternity are his Works
God is always he's making a
understanding about that statement that
God intended to reach out to the
Gentiles it was always from all eternity
that God would reach out to the
Gentiles yet there's nothing about the
Gentiles once they'd be reached out to
being required to become Jews and being
circumcised that's not mentioned verse
19 therefore I judge that we should not
trouble those from among the Gentiles
who are turning to God he's saying
basically I don't have any Scripture on
that
gentlemen I got scripture on that
they're supposed to be a part of it but
I don't have any Scripture on it says
they they have to be circumcised we're
not going to force them to do
that we're not going to make that an
absolute cuz we we need Scripture on
that
now we find in Luke 24 this is this is a
common way of dealing with issues and it
should be the common way we deal with
issues when it relates to Doctrine
Deuter I mean Deuteronomy Luke
24:45 he opened this is Jesus speaking
to these two men on the road to amus he
says he opened their understanding that
they might comprehend the
scriptures now how do you do that well
there's a lot of ways you do it but one
of the simple ways that we do it is a
little thing we call uh and I basically
we look for commands we look for
examples and then we look for what might
be a necessary inference from what we
have just read and that's how you know
the book and when you know the book you
can open the book to people who don't
know the book it's just you're not being
slick you're not being you're just
opening it up but you got to know it to
do that in Acts 8:35 beginning at this
scripture he preached Jesus unto him
this is talking to uh the the uh man
from Queen cesy uh that had come up to
worship and so he Philip's preaching to
him the scripture from Isaiah 53 he
begins at that scripture and he preached
to him Jesus that's just exog Jesus
folks 2 Timothy 2 and ver1 15 rightly
dividing the word of Truth means
accurately handling or handling a right
the word of God that's how you do it
uh that takes a knowledge another reason
you should be in the church a long time
before you're given the range to run the
church is that you should know something
about the Bible you should be able to
explain some things Titus 1 and verse 9
says this is to uh the leaders he says
holding fast the faithful word and able
both to exhort and sound Doctrine and
refute those to contradict so I'm sorry
but you have to be able to say no that's
not a Biblical concept but if you don't
know the Bible you can't do that that's
just the way it is so Thinking Inside
the Box let's let's be prepared for
theological fret in the church and in
the world we live in everybody thinks
they know everything you got Google in
your pocket and suddenly everybody
thinks they're a genius and it's just
not the case and because you look up a
few verses doesn't mean you understand
the ones you're quoting so be careful
and it's one of the reasons we turn the
church over to older guys it's just
reality because they should know
something by this point so ex aesus so
you have a Biblical doctrinal issue you
need to have experience and you need to
be able to execute what you do find
right and understanding number next
number three and this is the last
Point focus on the Precedence of
expediency it must be expedient Now by
that we don't use that word a lot but
you'll see what it means in this text
beginning in verse 20 now and if you can
stay with me in Acts 15 Acts 15:20
because this may be a little more
confusing to people it says verse 20 but
that we write to them to abstain from
things polluted by Idols from sexual
immorality from things strangled and
from blood now here's a couple of things
you need to know it is not forbidden in
the New Testament to eat anything
strangled or anything that has blood in
it unless this is it uh pled by Idols
that's inferred flee idolatry uh sexual
immorality clearly stated you need to
stay away from that but this food stuff
is not a big issue because Foods were
made clean right Acts chapter 10 we know
that so why is he mentioning it here why
does that come up and why is that
significant to the idea of whether or
not somebody needs to be
circumcised before they're baptized or
when they're baptized to be accepted
among the fellowship well they're saying
no we're not going to require that but
there are things that maybe need to be
considered to keep things rolling along
properly and he says in verse 21 why
that so for Moses has had throughout
many generations those who preach him in
every city being read in the synagogue
every Sabbath you say well that's just
the Jews well that's an important part
of the church at this point but that's
not all there were the god-fearers
that's Gentiles that hung around the
Jews and went to synagogue often and
listened to the teaching there so they
were often aware of what the Jews
believed but this is awareness of what
was taught in the synagogue which
relates to things strangled to blood
pollution of Idols verse 22 then it
pleased the apostles and Elders with the
whole church to send chosen men of their
own company to Antioch with Paul and
Barnabas namely Judas not the one that
did Jesus in Judas who was also named
barabus and Silas Leading Men among the
Brethren verse 23 they wrote this letter
by them and the APO letter by them the
elders the uh no the apostles the elders
and the Brethren to the Brethren who are
of the Gentiles in Antioch Syria cissa
greetings so this is a letter to the
church in Antioch but specifically to
the Gentile Brethren at Antioch and
these other two areas he says verse 24
since we have heard that some who went
out from us have troubled you with words
unsettling your soul saying You must be
circumcised and keep the law to whom
making it real clear stopping right
there he says to whom we gave no such
Commandment that didn't come from any of
the Apostles of Jesus
Christ and so we never heard that from
Jesus that that would be a requirement
going back to the ex of Jesus if you
will and their experience verse 25 it
seemed good to us being assembled one
Accord to send chosen men to you with
our beloved uh Barnabas and Paul men who
have risked their lives for the name of
the Lord Jesus Christ basically's saying
right here you ought to respect these
guys anyway and listen to what they have
to say verse 27 we have therefore sent
Judas and Silas who will also report the
same thing by word of mouth so some guys
we know that maybe you don't know we're
sending them also just more testimony so
you know we sent this letter verse 28
for it seemed good to the Holy Spirit
and to us I think that's good that they
agreed with the Holy Spirit to the Holy
Spirit into us and to lay upon you no
greater burden than these Necessary
Things why are they necessary they're
not something you had to obey there in
the law they're not something that we
know that Jesus required I'm not talking
about the sexual immorality thing yes
that was abstaining from pollution to
Idols yes that was but the food thing
that's a different thing verse 29 that
you abstain from these off things
offered to Idols well that's a pragmatic
thing that they all should have been
aware of from blood that's different
from things strangled that's different
and from sexual immorality if you keep
yourselves from these you will do well
farewell he didn't say if you do all of
these wrong then it's all sin although
some of them OB obviously were so what
is the point what is he doing he's
trying to be helpful in light of the
Jews that were throughout the kingdom
and the Gentiles that are mixed together
now within the kingdom that they would
have love feasts they would eat together
they' be fellowships together they'd be
in each other's houses they're going to
associate with each other if you were a
Jew it would be a problem to you if you
went into somebody's house and they
serve blood pudding for example that
would be a serious problem that' be a
problem for me too but for a different
reason but it would be a serious problem
to you okay to do that it would create a
problem and if at a fellowship somebody
came up with something like that you're
like what in the world are we going to
church with right all right 1
Corinthians 6 and verse2 all things are
lawful to me but all things are not
expedient there are a lot of things I
can do I don't recommend it I don't
drink y'all know I don't drink right I
think you know that don't drink but I
could probably take a whiskey bottle I
had a few in our house when I was GR gr
up I promise you my my dad know how to
drink and so there's always a whiskey
bottle and if I got a whiskey bottle and
I emptied it totally emptied and washed
it out scalded it out there's no alcohol
in it whatsoever and then I could pour
the finest water in it Dan or something
in there and set on the street corner
and drink and and I would not be sinning
by drinking water from a glass bottle
but it would be totally without any
expediency at all that would be a bad
thing to do and that' be a dumb thing to
do there are sometimes things we do at
church that we do for the sake of
expediency for the faith of everybody
sometimes we don't do some things
because some people can't handle it not
because it's wrong there are many things
we we could do and we have no doctrinal
issue with at all but some of you
do and what we're going to do just run
over you you think that's Justified
stepping on people you don't agree with
that and so we run you off over a
doctrinal matter that wouldn't be very
smart that would it so in other words my
opinion matters but yours
doesn't yeah that's where that leads and
that's why it causes splits 1
Corinthians 8: 1 through 13 verse one
just simply says we all have knowledge
knowledge puffs up but love builds up
edifies so if we're really motivated by
love we would never do that we would do
what was expedient for the whole
so not only are we not going to require
new converts to be circumcised to be
right with God to go to heaven we're
also not going to just eat anything in
anybody's presence that's what he's
saying and we're not just going to do
anything in anybody's presence we're
just not going to do that it's not
expedient 1 Corinthians 9: 19 says I be
free from I'm free from all men yet have
I made myself servant to all if that's
not your attitude then you you don't
understand Paul's attitude and you're
not very mature if you're that insistent
upon getting what you think we should do
and we must do it even if it rips the
church apart then you're one of the most
immature people in this group so I don't
think you want to think that way we
don't want to split the church under any
circumstance and the church matters more
than individual Desires in 1 Corinthians
10:23 again the statement that was made
in 1 Corinthians 6:12 is repeated in 1
Corinthians 10:23 so whenever anything
is repeated in one letter I would say
that that was important to Paul he says
again in 1 Corinthians 10:23 all things
are lawful for me but all things are not
expedient exactly so thinking inside the
church box let us prepare for
theological friction it will come there
will be somebody who will have some
little ax to grind it never fails I have
received through the years and I don't
talk about it because it don't show them
to you through the years at least once
or twice a year I'll get a booklet in
the mail somebody who has come up with
something that now if you don't listen
to this you're all going to hell over it
you have I give you a couple of them uh
if you have communion service offered to
people who missed it on Sunday morning
Sunday night you're all going to hell
for that that's the kind of thing that
somebody will come up with I I don't
know how many books I got like that but
I probably got 10 or 20 then I just
stuff them away I'm most time I throw
them away but I've got a bunch of them
somebody who's just I I knew a guy and I
was threatened to be sued in in South
Africa because I dared question his
theological position that if your lord
supper
communion uh the grape juice is not
fermented you're all going to go to hell
for drinking not fermented grape
juice oh no he's ready to sue me and
he's a brother in supposedly in the
Church of Christ my point is is that
even if he were right and he's not but
even if you were right that's a rather
inexpedient not a very expedient thing
to do is tell everybody you're going to
go to hell and that's where you're going
to resolve the problem so I'm just
simply saying there's more to these
things than you might think so uh here's
the list of what I would recommend so as
you're thinking about it when you are
going to face off with somebody then
first thing you look at is what's the
experience what have you
seen big thing second thing is what does
the scripture say be careful and look at
it thoroughly exag it as best you can
and then try to figure out what's
expedient what will be the best thing
for the most people that's what you have
to try to do and we struggle to try to
evaluate
ourselves I'm just being honest but
there are questions for yourself to
answer am I a
peacemaker or am I a
troublemaker is my speech gracious
seasoned with
salt or is my speech filled with a lot
of Gossip in
innuendo yeah the church at Corinth and
galatia were filled with good
Brethren who thought they were
right and were only fighting for what
they thought was
right and they knew they were humble cuz
we all know we
are so they could not allow themselves
to see the other side of that evil
argument because that would be evil to
even think that the other side might be
right so they had to correct all those
who were proud on the other
side and they wanted to fight it
out they were only trying to keep the
unity by forcing the others to
capitulate to their
position they had to fight to protect
the church from those power hungry
people on the other side I'm not power
hungry I just must keep you from having
the
power they wanted to dictate to them and
take their freedom away and their voice
away and their power away and their p
position away way but they weren't into
power and position
and is anybody picking up on the real
truth
here more than a complainer we need to
be a problem solver um I don't know if I
made a slide on that yeah I did guess I
did uh it all started with Stanley
Morrison I don't know if you've ever
heard of Stanley Morrison Stanley
Morrison complained uh what made it
worse was uh he complained
not just anyone but he complained to
London's esteemed the Times newspaper
his complaint was that their newspaper
was not as easy to read as it should be
and it was based upon a type face he
said your type face is horrible I can't
read it it's too hard to read it's just
crazy and he really was
upset and Stanley was then told well if
you don't like the tip P he worked for
him that was his employer he said well
you don't like the typ face fix
it he said okay he got a guy named
Victor larden and the two began working
they came up with what they thought was
an efficient readable typ face in 1926
the times this is in England tested
their new type face that Stanley and
Victor created they found it in fact to
be superior more easily read people
liked reading that type face I know that
may sound strange to you you may never
heard of this but it is the case and to
this day it is the primary type face
that you read it is in almost all your
books it's in almost all your printed
material you probably have it on your
computer there are versions now that are
maybe a little better easier to read but
it has been the standard for a very long
time the Times New Roman later shortened
to Times New Roman ever heard of it
see what Stanley did is he didn't just
complain he helped fix the
problem sometimes people want to
complain but not fix the problem because
that will not set their
agenda Solutions are never wanted by the
side that wants
power now you hear that real
good Solutions are never one by the side
who just wants
power that would not allow what they
want done
done leadership is a mindfield it's hard
no one likes being hated but I've been
hated so many times now it's kind of
getting used to it in fact it kind of
feels weird when I'm not somebody's not
mad at me John 15: 18 so if you mad at
me right now thank you for letting me
let me know John 15:18 if the world
hates you you know that it hated me
before it hated you so if you're going
to think Inside the Box here's one of
the sides of the box that you don't want
but if you're going to step into
leadership it's going to be true people
aren't going to like you they're going
to disagree with you and some of them
I'm going to try to say that the reason
that they disagree with you is a
doctrinal thing nine times out of 10
it's got nothing to do with your
Doctrine nothing but they'll always try
to find out a way that it is they'll try
to invent one and so when somebody tries
to invent a way that you're doctrinally
wrong you know immediately it has
nothing to do with Doctrine this is
about power this is about who's going to
call the ball that's what it's about be
careful but if they're reasonable people
then here's what you can do you can show
them your
experience you can show them the
scriptures and execute them for them and
then you can show what would be the
expedient thing to do for the vast
majority and if they're reasonable
people
go
okay I can live with
it and that's what you'll keep Unity
with boy y'all look so
serious wow we're not on the verge of a
split by the way unless y'all know
something I don't know so calm down a
bit you look very serious if you're here
tonight you've not given your life to
the Lord Jesus we always have that door
open so we want to have an invitation
song now you repent of your sins confess
in the Name of Christ and be baptized
God bless you I hope you develop in the
leader we need you to be thank you for
listening
