we need uh to know that well we need
first John but we need to know that
first John is really all about love and
we need more love amen and less
hatefulness and hateful jokes about hate
uh don't you just hate it when you go to
hug the one you
love and your face hits the
mirror I was just joking I
if someone hates you for no reason you
should really give them a
reason I was just
joking but seriously uh don't you just
hate all those people who don't love
their fellow man don't get
mad just the way it is a scripture for
such humor Proverbs 26 verse 18 anyone
who would trick somebody and then say I
was only joking it's like a fo who shoot
flaming arrows into the air and
accidentally kill
someone I was just joking folks okay so
the book of First John the book book of
First John is wholly about love and and
love is the manner it's the matter it's
the motive of the book it's the aim of
the book it is a great letter first John
is about love predominantly and it is a
truly great piece of work and since love
is John's theme
in this book we're a little bit shocked
when we run across this war word this
war word is
overcome overcome suggests there is a
war there is a Strife there is a
contention there is an Agony there's
something to Prevail against it's so
unlike the theme of the book which is
love to overcome the world and to strive
till death and to battle throughout your
life and to fight for a certain Victory
why Victory why overcome if it's all
about love surely there's no battle if
there's Love The Gospel of Love speaks
of Peace it speaks of Peace but here it
is in this book it is proclaiming a war
and that can only mean one thing that
something or someone in this world is
against love now just think about that
just a second there would be no
discussion of overcoming the world if
there wasn't something standing in
darkness and hatred if you would who
could be so dark-hearted to fight and
war against the gospel of love just
think about that just a second why in
the world would you ever be against love
this a strange concept why would there
need to be a battle how could Love's
value ever be offensive
iive how could it be offending to
anyone how could someone actually seek
the darkness of
hatred we know that it must be
Satan seeking to be king of this world
and he must be seeking to be king of
this world through
hate Through
Blood through death literally I mean
look around you the wars that are going
on clearly that's not of God but
something is opposing right and good and
love that this book is
advocating that's why the god of love
would send his son into the world with
this concept I'm not sending you to
create peace on Earth but to bring a
sword to set a man at variance with his
own family that's Matthew chap 10:
34-39 because evil was already present
in the world from the garden e evil had
already been here it had done its work
and that evil had created an atmosphere
of hatred and mean
spiritedness thus Jesus as a means to an
end had to engage in what he would
normally not want to engage in which is
Warfare we are in a war it's not the war
like you see out in the world world
they're not bombs dropping around us but
love trust and light must always
struggle against such things is hate
lies and darkness we have to do it you
don't have a choice about it unless
you're going to give into it unless
you're going to capitulate and become a
hater unless you're going to capitulate
and become a liar unless you're going to
capitulate and simply say I'm into the
darkness now I don't care
anymore you've got to choose and the
Earth isn't like a battlefield the Earth
is a
battlefield where love must combat hate
you have no choice about it it is the
reality of where we
Face God speaks to our conflict and
gives three truths of how
faith is the victory let's look at
those that's that's all I just
said you don't need to read it again
again the text that we're looking at
speaks of a great Victory it says again
let me read it again for whatever is
born of God overcomes the world and this
is the victory that overcomes the world
our faith there's a
victory you know there's been a lot of
great battles I I don't know if great is
the right word for it been a lot of big
battles where one nation overcame the
other but what country or what man has
ever truly overcome the entire world oh
now you might be thinking oh Alexander
the Great maybe I mean the Roman Empire
we know didn't overcome the entire world
they may have thought it at the time but
we now know the world was bigger and it
did not overcome the entire world
Alexander the Great might have come a
little closer to it because it was a
little bit of a smaller world at the
time but even after he got through we
know that he didn't overcome the world
because his own soul his own soul within
him was part of the world right that's
part of the world himself and himself he
hadn't overcome himself because even at
the end he was unhappy he was not
satisfied with what he gotten so he
didn't even have control over himself
he'd never even overcome himself and
anyone who overcomes the world anyone
who would really literally overcome the
world would so far outshine Alexander
the Great it wouldn't even be a
comparison it would be someone so worthy
of Praise if they could truly over come
the entire world John 16:13 says these
things I have spoken to you that in me
you may have peace in the world you will
have tribulation be of good cheer I have
overcome the
world yes he is worthy of great praise
he really did it he overcome the world
within and the world without in every
way by the blood of Christ a Christian
overcomes the world
and so in that Revelation 12:1 talks
about how we overcome the world through
the blood of Christ but he that
overcomes the world you've overcome the
world when you or any of us reject the
evil habits of the world in John 17:16
it says they are of the world that means
they behave like the world he's talking
about his disciples as opposed to his
disciples those who didn't follow him
they are of the world we are not of the
world Amen we're not of the world and in
that sense you've overcome the world
there but he overcomes the world when
also he ignores the slanderers of the
world oh the world will slander you
we're not supposed to slander them
sometimes Christians will say ugly
things about the people of the world
it's not necessary we shouldn't engage
in that kind of behavior they will
continue to do it though they will
slander us and that's okay John 15: vers
18 where to expect that it says in if
the world hates you you know it hated me
before it hated you it's what you should
expect I mean they didn't you know give
Jesus a party that killed him so he
overcomes the world when he distrusts
the Friendship of the world so he
overcomes the world when he rejects the
evil habits of the world and when he
ignores the Slanders of the world but
when he distrusts the Friendship of the
world that even when you try to be kind
of a friend of the world you shouldn't
trust that at all James 4:4 says a
friend of the world makes himself an
enemy of God so whenever you try to live
in both places you end up making
somebody an enemy you don't want to make
an enemy which is God so this text
speaks to a great Victory and a faith
that is the victory that overcomes the
world and those of you who are embed in
your faith now you truly
believe you know something of that
Victory already you've already done it
second lesson I want you to see is this
text speaks of a great birth it says let
me read it again for whatever is born of
God overcomes the world there have been
uh
Nations there have been races there have
been religions and there have been
pilgrims where one group group and you
know this I'm not telling you anything
I'm just rehashing what you already know
where one group claimed to be superior a
superior People based upon their
birth that was it elitism is the belief
that a select group has an intrinsic
quality born with it high intellect they
think maybe or high wealth or high power
High nobility special skills experiences
and art are more constructive therefore
for the society and so knowing that
they're more constructive for the
society in their own mind they deserve
greater influence than the rest of us
and therefore they should have authority
over others elitism is based on a birth
without doing
anything ain't that interesting has no
deserving the Aryan race for example
very similar it was the idea of Germany
for example and India uh where that's
where they originally came from is India
uh but Germany had this idea during
World War II derived from the notion
that the origin of the Proto Indo
Europeans were
progenitors of a superior race of humans
I don't know if You' studied it but
there was the belief of that in India
and that's exactly the belief that
Germany took on elitism of that sort is
based on birth again with haven't done
anything to deserve it and then there
was this thing that happened in America
but it wasn't only in America it was
also in Europe as also in other parts of
the world white
supremacy it has its roots in the
doctrine of what they thought was
scientific racism which just selectiv
ISM it was a key justification of the
European
colonization but it's elitism based on
birth without having done
anything
interesting by receiving
Christ we have the right to be born of
God John 1 and verse 12 he ha that does
that has the right to become born of God
who no longer practices sin so there is
a change in US yes we're born of God yes
it's of his work but then there is
literally a difference we stop
practicing sin that doesn't mean we stop
sinning now that'd be a lie if I told
you we stopped sinning that none of us
sin anymore that'd be a lie but if I
told you that we stop practicing sin
that better be the truth about you and I
1 John 3:9 says no one is born of God
practices sin so if you're born of God
you don't practice sin you don't try to
get better at it you don't go to work
thinking I'm going to make myself a
bigger sinner than I was yesterday no
you're trying to eliminate it out of
your life and he has the right to become
born of God who no longer
practices
hate the world hates let me tell you
something I don't want to ever hear out
of any of us oh I just hate that I just
hate him we should shouldn't talk like
that amen that should not be the
vocabulary of a Christian 1 John 4:7
says everyone who loves is born of God
and knows God not everybody who hates
now that's not to say that you can't
hate a thing but you should never hate a
person not one person no matter what
they've done no matter who they are we
don't hate them and he has the right to
become born of God who know longer
protests Jesus there was a time I mean
in my life where I thought all of you
people who go to church the Christians
are crazy I really did I was kind of
what I was taught and I just thought it
was terrible I thought why waste your
time going to church on Sunday you know
I mean there's so many things to do in
this
world 1 John 5 ver1 whoever believes
that Jesus is the Christ as born of God
let me tell you something it'll change
you if you really believe it it'll
change you you can't help it you'll be
different tomorrow being born of God so
it's not this idea that I'm just born
and I'm not any different it's not I'm
born of God and have nothing to do
that's different no no no you are
different so this text speaks of a great
birth and a faith that whoever receives
Christ is born of God and overcomes the
world the third lesson I want us to
see is this text speaks of a great grace
you might not pick it up because the
word's not in the text but it's there
and whatever is born of God overcomes
the world and this is the victory that
overcomes the world all of our great
works is that what he says no all of our
special
Deeds all the Deeds we did that made us
right with
God that's not what it says is it the
victory that's overcome the
world our
faith there have been many religious
Aesthetics in every form of religion
whatever you want to talk about Judaism
Christianity Islam Buddhism jism sand
hus and Hinduism and thaism and a half a
dozen more aestheticism has been around
a long time ticism is that where you do
something to your body to try to win
favor with the Divine ticism comes in so
many forms it comes in the forms you
still see it in religious circles a vow
silence had seen that very
often AOW silence uh fast we still fast
starvation filation where you whip
yourself mutilation extreme isolation
yoga positions Believe It or Not yoga in
that form is a religion yoga just doing
exercises just exercise vowing never use
one to never use one of your legs so you
literally literally stand like that the
rest of life and H around on it there's
a guy that's vowed never to pull his arm
down you can see him on the internet his
arm shriveled but it's still stuck up
there he can't pull it down now so
that's not uncommon out there in the
realm of AET athetics uh nakedness there
have been people who just would not put
clothes on and that was their thing for
the gods they thought uh pole sitting
became a thing wounding themselves
piercing themselves to obtain
Revelations superiority favor with God
uus gives a report of how a one young
man uh origin of Alexandria after
misinterpreting the statement in Matthew
uh about where it says uh there are unic
who have made themselves Unix for the
sake of the Kingdom of Heaven uh who
literally paid to have himself castrated
that that's actually even happening
today in a weird kind of way but the
point was to make themselves more
acceptable to the Divine the Monk Simon
States or states is the guy who sat on
top of a pillar that was 15 MERS high
and he sat there for some 37 years
unprotected from the elements just on
top of a pillar right up there on the
top of a pillar that's some 15 M high
for 37 years that was somehow going to
get him something with the Divine with
the gods the Italian composer galdo uh
had himself beaten daily by his
employees it's a place you want to go to
work but not a place you want to own but
uh he he had himself literally beaten
every day by his employees there's been
thousands of men and women thousands not
hundreds but thousands of men and women
throughout the history who populated
deserts particularly in the Middle East
Eager to torture themselves in some kind
of exchange for Paradise With God
somehow I could do something that God
would just have to save me because I did
this thing
that somehow I would Merit salvation
that somehow God would just have to give
it to me by faith in Christ we could
triumph over the world that's what this
text is teaching it isn't something you
can earn like that Christians do not
triumph over the world by any Works
listen to the words of Romans chapter 4
beginning in verse two for If Abraham
was justified by works he had something
to boast about but not before God as
great a man as he was not not before God
he's a father of our faith but not
before God what he offered Isaac not
before
God for what does the scripture say
Abraham believed God and it was
accounted to him for righteousness see
if he hadn't believed he'd have never
done the rest of it and now to him who
works the wages are not counted as Grace
but as a debt so if it is by works God
owes you
Heaven no that's not the way it is but
to him who does not work believes on him
who justifies the ungodly his faith is
accounted for righteousness thus a
Christian does not triumph over the
world through a stetic uh as Aesthetics
couldn't get the word out Works done to
coers God somehow into giving him Grace
that's not what happens it's not by our
power not by our race not by our wealth
not by our Eli elitist situation not by
our Fame not by our cleverness not by
our Deeds not by our Perfections we
cannot earn Merit salvation in any way
Christians do not triumph over the world
by works of righteousness Titus 3:5 not
by works of righteousness says it
directly just that not by works of
righteousness which we have done not by
works of righteousness which have done
I'm not you read it up there yourself
right you can see it there it is that's
not how we're saved but according to his
Mercy he saved us through the washing of
regeneration and renewing of the Holy
Spirit we have to be forgiven and none
of your good works will overcome that
that's all of Grace Christians do not
triumph over the world by washing our
bodies of the filth of the flesh either
1 Peter 3:21 says that there is also an
antitype which now saves us baptism now
that means baptism does save but it's
not not the removal of the filth of the
flesh but the answer of a good
conscience toward God through the
resurrection of Jesus Christ and if you
pay really close attention that means
that means that happens because you have
faith why does it work because you had
Faith that's why it works doesn't work
otherwise otherwise it's just dipping
you in water it doesn't do anything for
you at all so a faith that changes our
heart a faith that must confess the Lord
Jesus a faith that is washed in baptism
but a faith that cleanses us so this
text teaches us of a great grace and a
faith without meritorious works is the
gracious victory that overcomes the
world what overcomes the world here it
is there's a great victory that
overcomes the world there's a great
verth that overcomes the world there's a
great grace that overcomes the world
it's your
faith
it's your
faith faith is the
victory that's it it's not very fancy
but it is true John Henry Ates
1891 wrote
this he was an accident prone
child that's that's being mild let me
tell you about John Henry H he was a kid
looking for a place to get hurt
hurt he was raised in New York state in
a place called matavia I don't know how
you pronounce that uh his dad was a
Shoemaker his mom was a school
teacher and his mom loved poetry and
literature and that's where he gets it
from on Election Day in 1844 he fell
from a high set of stone steps in a
hotel hit his head fractured his skull
they thought he was going to die he
lingered for days
he bore that Scar from that for the rest
of his life on his
head in 1847 3 years
later he
uh thrown across a deck in a ship
because it's this violent storm they
were in broke his leg at age 16 not long
after
that he brought down a curtain at a
school play but not because he was such
a great actor he accidentally fell on an
open double ated edge knife piercing his
right lung in a play in a school
play they didn't think he'd survive this
is now the multiple times that he's
almost died barely hang hung on for a
long time finally got better at age 18
though he got better began working in
his shoe business with his mom and dad
shoe maker shoe salesman but he started
writing poetry because his his mom got
him into that
he wrote for Harper's Bazaar some other
magazines he wrote ballads poems songs
hymns they were recited Across America
they became very popular he was he was
popular but he didn't quit it and do
that as a as a a job he worked in a
hardware store for a long time and then
finally he moved to a local newspaper on
the side he preached because his dad was
a preacher his dad preached Temperance
you know that Temperance where back in
the day and in February
1878 his wife so now he's had nothing
but trouble been hurt many times nearly
died several times but he survived Thea
hit his family he lived his wife and his
two sons died in one
week in
1891 he was asked by Ira sanki to write
gospel songs which he began to do he
even began to preach a little bit on the
side in bavia September the 5th 1900 he
died on his uh gravestone is this in
Memorial of the poet preacher John H
Yates born
1837 died 1900 faith is the victory oh
glorious victory that overcomes the
world he's known for this everybody
knows him for this because it's true
faith is the victory encamped along the
hills of light you Christian Soldiers
rise and press the battle air the night
shall Veil the glowing Skies against the
Foe and veils below let all our strength
be hurled faith is the victory we know
that overcomes the world faith is the
victory faith is the victory oh glorious
victory that overcomes the world His
Banner Over Us is love
our sword the word of God we tread the
road the Saints above with shouts of
Triumph Tried by faith they like a
whirlwinds breath swept on or every
field the Faith by which they conquered
death is still our shining Shield faith
is the victory faith is the victory oh
glorious victory that overcomes the
world on every
hand the foe we find drawn up and Dread
array no matter where you go right
Evil's against us let tents of ease if
you think this is easy let tents of ease
be left behind you are
mistaken and onward to the freay it's a
battle salvation's helmet on each head
with truth all gir about the Earth shall
tremble Neath our tread and Echo with
our shout to him that overcomes the foe
white reignment shall be given before
the angels He shall know his name
confessed in heaven then onward from the
hills of light our hearts with love of
flame will Vanquish all the host of
night in Jesus conquering name Faith is
the
victory if you could only see the great
Victory If You Could Only See it and
could only see the great birth and the
great grace that's been shown us I don't
think we could keep you from obeying the
gospel if you
had I think you'd fight us I need to do
it I need to repent of my sins I need to
confess the name of Christ I need to get
right with God I need to do it now I
want to be one that overcomes the
world what's really great is almost
everybody sitting around you right now
look at them they're just normal well
mainly mainly
normal little odd here and there but
mainly normal all these people around
you and these are
they that overcome the
world join us if you need to while we
stand while we sing
