not
everyone wants not
everyone deserves not everyone
can receive a reward for what they
do at the end of the year one particular
office was having an office party
you'all been a part of some of those
most of you have and they were actually
giving out Rewards or Awards to various
employees for things that the management
thought were outstanding service and
actions you all probably seen that one
of the quietest guys in their
office uh was given an
award and the award was for the most
secretive person in the
office so when he received his reward he
got up and made his speech and he's the
quietest guy in the office and he says
this
I can't tell you how much this means to
me long way to go for
that in fact it's
impossible to reward some people for
what they
do if you don't know that you need to
learn
it the Lord God is a
rewarder it says so in Hebrews 11 and: 6
but without faith it is impossible to
please him for he who comes to God must
believe that he is that is he
exists and that he is a rewarder of
those who diligently seek he's not a
rewarder of those who seek him he's a
rewarder of those who diligently seek
you if you haven't gotten what you were
looking for from God it may not be God's
problem diligently seeking but there are
Rewards wordss that he hands out even in
this world even in this world we
mentioned a few of them in our prayer
didn't we that you've
seen the Lord
rewards
though differently possibly than you've
wanted he rewards in his
time in his
way in this
life or in the next and those are all
ores
and I'm going to go I'm not going to go
through all these verses I'll just point
out to you what they teach because we
simply don't have time uh we can do good
and be
unrewarded until it's God's timing in
this world so you may do good and God
May full well intend to reward you in
this world but it's not yet the time to
do it a good example of that is Mori
who helped stop a plot to kill the king
and nobody paid any attention to the
fact that he did including the king even
though it was recorded in the annals of
the king but then he was remembered
later at a critical moment we can do
good and be rewarded in God's ways not
the way I would have maybe chosen to be
rewarded but in the way God chooses to
reward toward me for example mothers and
fathers
are rewarded okay and so too we are
rewarded but a lot of times we don't see
Mothers and Fathers as a
reward so we don't think that way and we
can be good and we can be rewarded in
God's
kingdom coup of cold water given in the
name of the
disciple it will not go
unnoticed but that can't be accomplished
here because there's no way for me to do
it for
you it has to be from the Lord and it
has to be in his kingdom we can do evil
so it's not just good but we can do evil
and be unrewarded until God's timing for
example as you recall David was fleeing
from Jerusalem when his son was
rebelling it was during the Civil War
and as he's fleeing down this Valley
there's a guy named sha and he's up
there on the hillside cursing at him and
throwing rocks at him his Commander
wants to go kill him but David says no
if God sent him to curse me let him
curse me but the end of the story is
after David is old and he's about to die
he hasn't forgotten that he says if
that's God's will that's God's will but
then as he's about to die he turns to
Solomon and he says probably a man who
would curse a king and the anointed of
the Lord doesn't deserve to live out his
life I'll leave it to you to take care
of that and of course Solomon has him
killed he was doing an evil thing but it
wasn't the right time to do deal with
him and we can do evil and be rewarded
in God's ways not necessarily the way I
would want to be
rewarded but in God's ways for example
Pride leads to a fall we're told but
often that doesn't happen in the way
that we would have picked I'll never
forget I was told once upon a time that
uh because of something i' said I
believed another preacher in the
Churches of Christ said I'll try to see
that you never get to preach anywhere
ever
again he no longer
preaches now we can do evil and be we
can be rewarded at God's kingdom
tribulation recompense
persecution God will deal with much of
that if we've done evil when his kingdom
appears so it doesn't happen so if
you're looking for I press this button
and I get this it doesn't work quite
like that okay thus many of the rewards
for doing good actually cannot be given
to you by men it cannot happen the way
we expect so look at four rewards that
are the rewards of no rewards and you
should want these
Rewards please learn to want the rewards
that you don't
get no number one there is no reward
from man if there is no one to
repay you can't receive a reward from
man to as a result of what you've done
if there's no one that knows it your
father will reward you openly for secret
Good Deeds but that doesn't necessarily
mean here there's no indication that he
meant here but he will reward you openly
in Matthew 6: 1-6 it says this take heed
that you do not do your charitable Deeds
before men to be seen by them otherwise
you have no reward from your father in
Heaven that's not where you want to be
therefore when you do a charitable deed
do not sound a trumpet before you as the
Hypocrites do in the synagogues and in
the streets that they may have Glory
from men assuredly I say to you they
have their reward if that's what they're
want is everybody to notice them well
they got what they wanted but there's
nothing else there verse three but when
you do a charitable deed do not let your
left hand know what your right hand is
doing that your charitable deed may be
in secret and your father who sees in
secret will himself reward you openly
well he isn't going to do it right then
and he may only do it much much later
verse five and when you pray you shall
not be like the Hypocrites for they love
to pray standing in the synagogues and
on the corners of the streets that they
may be seen by men yeah boy you're a
good prayer assuredly I say to you they
have their reward if that's what you're
going for you get it but that's all you
get verse six but you when you pray go
into your room and when you've shut your
door pray to your father who is in the
secret place and your your father who
sees in secret reward will reward you
open they cannot repay you mankind
cannot repay you for a faith they don't
actually know you
have so only God can do that so no man
can reward you for secret Good Deeds
that they don't even know about Matthew
8 verse4 says see that you tell no one
amen
keep it to yourself why because then he
will do it he'll reward you openly and
that's the reward you
want number
two we're just looking at four of these
there this is not the whole list but
there is no reward from man if there is
no way to repay you see you're rewarded
sometimes at the resurrection because
that's the only way you can be rewarded
listen to Luke 14 again I'll read it to
you but I want to emphasize a couple of
things verse 12 says then he also said
to him who invited him when you give a
dinner or supper do not ask your friends
your brothers your relatives nor Rich
neighbors lest they also invite you back
and you be repaid that's what most of us
do most of the time right I mean we're
just eating together we're
fellowshipping each other there's no
reward for that in
heaven you got the reward he fed you you
fed him there's the reward that's it
that's all there is in that one verse 13
but when you give a feast invite the
poor the Mame the lame the Blind and you
will be blessed because they
cannot they canot repay they have no way
to repay you they have no ability for
you shall be repay at the resurrection
of the just so if they could repay you
then it would not be something you get a
blessing later for but since you do
something like that something charitable
to someone that can do nothing for you
there's only one way for you to be
repaid for that that's it the
resurrection you inherit the Kingdom
prepared for you as well this is the
discussion in Matthew 25 on this same
subject of helping out needy individuals
beginning of verse 31 it says this when
the son of man comes in his glory and
All His Holy Angels with them then he
will sit on the throne of his glory
it'll be some sight for us to see verse
32 all the nations will be gathered
before him that's dead and a living huge
crowd he will separate them one from
another we're not going to stay together
as a Shepherd we're not going to all get
the same thing we're not going to all go
the same place as a Shepherd divides his
sheep from the goats and he will set the
sheep on his right hand but the goats on
his left then the king will say to those
on his right hand come you blessed of my
father
blessed they never gave you anything
back but you're blessed how are you
blessed inherit the Kingdom you get the
kingdom prepared for you from the
foundation of the world God knew you
back then and he planned this for you
for I was hungry and you gave me food I
was thirsty and you gave me drink man
that's hungry can't feed you man who's
thirsty can't give you a drink I was a
stranger and you took me in he can't be
someone you know when he isn't I was
naked and you clothed me I was sick and
you visited me I was in prison and you
came to me he cannot repay when there's
no way for him to repay when the Lord
appears you'll get your reward that's
that's the one I want amen that's the
one I
want number
three there is no reward from man if
there is no desire to repay you see some
things people wouldn't do anything for
you for nothing you couldn't even pay
them to do you
something see you're rewarded with the
Kingdom of
Heaven in heaven see that's actually the
Kingdom of Heaven is not not just
exactly heaven but you're rewarded with
the Kingdom of Heaven in heaven I don't
know if you've ever studied that Matthew
5:10 beginning says blessed are those
who are persecuted for righteousness
sake that means you're not liked for
theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven theirs
is the that's their reward theirs is the
Kingdom of Heaven blessed are you when
they revile and persecute you you ever
had anybody revile you for the cause and
say all kinds of evil against you ah
he's a bad don't pay any attention
falsely that's an important part of that
falsely for my sake Rejoice be exceeding
glad for great is your reward in heaven
so Heaven's not the reward the reward is
in heaven for so they persecuted the
prophets who were before you haters do
not desire for you to be
blessed and you're rewarded in heaven
Luke 6: 22 and 23 blessed are you when
men hate you well that's not much of a
blessing is it and when they exclude you
you've been excluded from things because
of your
faith and revile you and cast out your
name as evil for the son of man's sake
rejoice in that day and leap for Joy for
indeed your reward reward is great in
heaven haters cannot reward in heaven
and they don't desire you to receive any
reward they just like mocking church
folks right they do they enjoy it makes
them feel
Superior you receive a better
Resurrection Well you certainly can't
get that here and I'll tell you your
haters have no desire for you to re
receive a better Resurrection a better
world Beyond here Hebrews 11:35 says
others were tortured tortured tortured
that's your brothers and sisters others
were tortured not accepting
Deliverance wow they could have got out
of it but they didn't that they might
obtain a better
Resurrection on the other side see
there's no desire for you to be saved by
the people who don't believe in saved
anyway they sure have no desire for you
to be saved and you have joy set before
you just as Jesus Hebrews chap 12 1 and
2 therefore we also since we are
surrounded by so great a cloud of
witnesses that's Heaven's watching us
all the time let us lay aside every
weight and the sin which is so easely
and snares us and let us run with
endurance the race that is set before us
looking under to Jesus the author and
finisher of our faith who for the joy
that was set before him coming back to
that in a moment the joy that was set
before him endured the cross despising
the shame sat down at the right hand of
the Throne of God what did Jesus get
from the people who killed
him did they desire to bless him could a
man have blessed him in this life no
but when he walked into glory after he
has risen from the dead after he
ascended back into Glory you think there
might have been a little bit of a
celebration that day you think there
might have been a little bit of Joy so
the lost and
haters the best thing we can see is the
joy set before us is those people still
saved you see that was his real Joy even
the haters might be saved even those
that aren't converted to they might be
converted that's his Joy set before him
that he would be the payment for their
sins so we hope and we pray that those
that hate Christians today will come to
know Jesus and that would be the
greatest joy set before us but they have
no desire to see us happy about
it so number
last there is no reward from man if
there's no justice to
repay you know sometimes there's just no
way to have Justice in this world some
of y'all think that we ought to have
Justice on everything you don't even
have Justice in your relationship with
you your wife or your husband there not
even Justice with your children you
think you get Justice all the time
you're expecting to be treated justly
your marriage may not even
last it's not always just you're
rewarded at the visitation of Christ
by your conduct and that leads to
glorifying God listen to the scriptures
1 Peter 2 and ver2 having your conduct
honorable among the Gentiles that when
they speak against you as evildoers they
may by your good works which they
observe glorify God in the day of
visitation on the day of judgment when
we're all when the Lord's come he's
visited us
finally people who saw you and maybe
said ugly things about you go you know
really they were
faithful that was a good
person they did a good
thing and that gives glory to God
Injustice Reigns here don't expect to be
repaid here
properly you are commended before God
according to 1 Peter chap 2: 19-2 it
says for this is commendable if if
because of conscience toward God one
endures grief suffering wrongfully so
this is a blessing of being mistreated
verse 20 for what credit is it if when
you are beaten for your faults you take
it patiently in other words you did
wrong and things went wrong and you got
punished for it and you take that
patiently
woo that's nothing to be proud of that's
nothing at all you got what you hey kids
if your mom and daddyy spank you they're
not you don't need to report them you
need to
change repent get your attitude straight
they're they're keeping you alive you
might ought to act like you owe them
something amen amen
walls amen all those who still spank
their kids like they
should because the Bible teaches that my
friend whether you like it or not verse
20 for what credit is it if when you are
beaten for your faults you take it
patiently but when you do good and
suffer you ever been spanked for
something you didn't do we all
have we all have I've been mistreated
for thing I was doing good and I got
mistreated we've all got that you're not
special on that every one of us got it
every one of us got that but when you do
good and suffer if you take it patiently
and not you know throw a fit but you
take it
patiently this is commendable but listen
to where it's at before
God when's that going to happen before
God I think I'll take that amen I'll
take that one so you're rewarded by your
glorifying God for your insults that
you've endured 1 Peter
4:16 yet if anyone suffers as a
Christian let him glorify God
in this matter we ought to be thrilled
that we get to be insulted from time to
time I know I've seen people quit the
church because somebody hurt their
feelings you ought to Rejoice every time
your brother or sister says something
nasty to you you'll say praise the Lord
that's going to make things later better
than it is right now
amen Amos 5 verse 24 let Justice roll
down like Waters that ain't happening in
this world folks that's in the next the
SCE of praise for the Lord is in the
next World when Justice really sits on
the throne and when we're rewarded for
such things so here's the truth of this
lesson whether it's conveniently
comfortable to you or not the rewards of
no rewards are the best rewards we can
get if life is handing you lemons you
ought to be thrilled I know we're not
but we ought to be we ought to be
because it makes that better the worst
this is the better that will be if
you're living for the Lord so there's no
reward from man if there is no one to
repay you there's no reward for man if
there is no way for them to repay you
there's no reward for man if there's no
desire on their part to repay you and
there's no reward for men if there's no
justice to repay
you
rejoice that means the next place is
going to be really really good
amen really
good yeah I want a Mansion Just Over The
Hilltop I believe we just said that Mike
White wrote for greater Long Island
newsletters in May of 31st 2021 he wrote
this I just want to read a little bit
for you when the holidays came around
everyone in my wider family knew not to
play I'll Be Home for Christmas around
my grandmother
mother no one wanted to see her cry her
brother my great uncle was killed during
World War II my mom would explain to me
and he had promised in his last letter
home after two years overseas that like
Bean Crosby that sung in 1940 whatever
it was he too would be home for
Christmas he was supposed to get leave
that
December decades upon decades later my
grandmother still couldn't hear that
song without breaking down they say time
heals all
wounds time healed nothing for
her and that's all I ever really knew
about my great uncle until I was older
and a relative uncovered some long
forgotten letters in military paperwork
what I learned was the story of an
American hero a story of true love and
sacrifice in a time of utter darkness
and Desperation Charles chick Quinn a
Long Island Railroad machinist from St
Alban's Queens was 19 years old when the
Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor on
December the 7th
1941 a week later he enlisted in the US
Marine Corps according to military
records Corporal Charles D Quinn was 5'
7 and 3/4 in tall with blue eyes eyes
brown hair and a readyy
complexion during his almost two years
overseas he took part in several
military campaigns against the Japanese
in the Pacific including a 1944
reconnaissance mission in pelu in the
Isle Nation
Apollo he completed his last mission but
suffered wounds along the way five days
later he died on a Navy hospital ship in
the arms of a chaplain Corporal Quinn a
baby brother in this story whose battle
worn the he wore the presidential unit
citation was later posthumously awarded
the Silver
Star that's
him it's the military third highest
reward of Valor in the face of the
enemy see the truth is he never saw
that he was never rewarded in this life
at
all the citation reads while carrying
out an extremely hazardous
reconnaissance mission to obtain Vital
Information Corporal Quin observed a
marine officer pinned down by intense
enemy rifle and machine gun fire and
imperiled by snipers disregarding his
own personal safety he courageously
advanced in the face of the Hostile fire
and killed the most threatening sniper
thereby saving
the officer's life although he received
wounds during this action which later
proved fatal he steadfastly refused
medical attention and completed his
reconnaissance subsequently dispatching
a written report to the regimental
command post before he was
evacuated but Colonel Quinn NE never
made it home for
Christmas Even though he said he
would
he really wasn't rewarded in this life
now was
he thousands of times good men trying to
do the right thing as a soldier have
died for their
country no one ever knew they acted with
great Valor or
honor but God
knows God
knows thousands of times good men and
women have tried to do the right thing
as Christians and they were Miss treated
abused used sold enslaved killed
persecuted hated and all they ever did
was they were just trying to do the
right thing and act with
honor but God
knows the God knows so what am I calling
you
to calling you to the ranks of the
unsung heroes of
right the no-name saints that no one
ever knew
about that no one ever heard you did
what you did the
forgotten the
unknown the faithful that no one knew
how faithful they
were left only to God and without God
there will be no
reward how many millions upon Millions
is that not true now you could be among
Ong the people who just want somebody to
put a badge on
you and to say hell to the chief you
might be the one who says give me money
that's all I want make me Rich make me
well make me have no more pain may be
like the person who has everything the
way they want it maybe that's who you
want to be but I'm calling you to stop
wanting to be that
person be the one that it will take God
and God Alone to reward
you and nobody even
knew not even your
family not your friends not the folks at
church no one
knew receive your reward from him
folks that's enough
amen that's
enough maybe will get something when
Corporal Quinn gets
his but it's in his hands if you're not
right with the Lord need to get right
with the Lord repent of your sins
confess the name of Christ be baptized
and then live a life that nobody
notices but makes a difference that God
pays attention
to why don't you come if you need to
while we stand in while we sing
