I don't know how many of you have uh
probably done the test but it's an
obvious test if you haven't done it you
should do it especially if you're kind
of like me kind of a science geek uh we
all have a blind spot we literally do we
have two of them uh one's on with one
eye and one's with the other eye so your
right eye has a blind spot and the way
to find it if you want to do it is you
take a piece of paper and draw two x's
on it about five 6 Ines apart right
cover one eye focus on if it's your
right eye focus on the dot to the left
and then move the paper towards your
face the dot to the right will disappear
at about a foot and you do it with the
other eye and then cover your uh your
right eye so you just focus with your
left eye on the dot to the right and
bring the paper close to your face and
get about a foot away and the dot on the
left will disappear you have a blind
spot the reason you don't see it is
because your eyes do this your eyes go
Crossways and so you see this way with
this eye and this way with this eye and
that is not blind you can see it because
you're using both eyes but when you use
one eye there is a blind spot so if
you're down to one eye there's a place
where you cannot see it's not that big
but it does exist the truth is is that
we all have blind spots it's not just a
physical phenomenon it is a spiritual
phenomenon we struggle to see some
things there are some Concepts they're
really hard for us we may think oh well
I I see everything well it's not really
the case we struggle at times um in fact
there's been some studies done in this
field about how we struggle to see
things when we think we're seeing
everything that's going on around us
there was a test done uh uh it was a
Harvard study many decades ago and it
was called The Invisible Gorilla that
was the name of the book that came out
of it there is a video on YouTube if you
want to see it it's called The selective
attention test and you can take the test
yourself and since I'm going to tell you
what the test is it's going to mess it
up for you but basically the test is a
group of people uh that are passing C
passing a basketball around on a
court they different ones have white
shirts and what you were told to do is
you're to count the number of passes by
ERS wearing the white shirts right
that's that's what you're told to do
what you're not told to do is look at
anything else but during that uh one or
I think it's one minute of a video while
you're watching them pass the ball
around there's a gorilla a woman in a
gorilla suit that comes through and
she's on the camera for like 10 seconds
and then walks
away 50% of people who take this test
never see the
gorilla we see what we're focused on we
were told to count the passes we never
even see the gorilla in the room ain't
that kind of funny you don't see the
gorilla in the room now there are many
causes for Spiritual blindness and I
want to run through just a few really
quickly one is Disobedience you can be
spiritually blind about some things
simply because you're in Disobedience at
that moment Deuteronomy uh 28 talks
about this probably the first effort in
the scriptures that speaks of it it says
but it shall come to pass if you do not
obey the voice of the Lord your God to
observe carefully all his Commandments
and his statutes which I command you the
Lord will strike you with Madness and
blindness and confusion of heart so it's
not necessarily talking about physical
blindness there and you shall grope uh
at noon day as a blind man gropes in the
darkness so it may be talking about
physical but it may very well be talking
about spiritual blindness it seems to be
the discussion another case that will
cause it if you're unregenerate if
you've never been born again John 3:3
says this uh that unless one is born
again he cannot see the kingdom of God
it may be talking about at the end of
the world but it doesn't seem to suggest
that since we all see that so it's
probably talking about can't perceive it
can't perceive it in your spirit and
therefore that spiritual blindness
another thing that can cause spiritual
blindness is hypocrisy in Luke 6 and: 42
two it says when you yourself do not see
the plank that is in your own eye
hypocrite first remove the plank from
your own eye and then you will see
clearly so you can't even see the plank
that's in your eye and you can't see
clearly then you're not aware of it
because of hypocrisy another one would
be opposition in other words just
opposing the things of God causes people
to have a certain level of blindness in
Luke 11: 20 I mean Luke Romans 11 verse
25 says blindness in part has happened
to Israel and it says why in verse 28
concerning the gospel they are enemies
for your sake so when you make yourself
an enemy of any concept it tends to make
you blind to other aspects of that
concept immaturity is another one 1
Corinthians 13:12 we see in a mirror
Darkly or dimly and the reason that it's
talking about that in this case is he's
talking about that which is perfect has
come and that which is perfect in that
text is not Jesus but it is love itself
so if you have an immature love you see
in a mirror dimly or see the word of God
dimly another one is worldliness which
is similar to Disobedience Ephesians 4:
17-19 says that Gentiles walk in the F
futility of their mind that means a lot
of the things that Gentiles of the world
uh it's confusing to them Verse 18
having their understanding darkened
being alienated from the life of God
because the ignorance that is in them
they're unaware of many things that you
know because of the blindness of their
heart uh who being past feeling have
given themselves over to lewdness to
work all uncleanness with greediness so
when you give yourself over to sin it
tends to create a spiritual blindness
within your heart another one is
forgetfulness 2 Peter 1:9 says who lacks
these things is shortsighted these
various characteristics he had just made
a list of who lacks these good qualities
uh is shortsighted even to blindness and
here's the reason and has forgotten he
was cleansed from his old sins so it's
kind of like sometimes you know at the
Lord's Supper one of the great things
about that is reminds us of of the sins
we've we've committed and and the grace
that's been shown to us people who don't
participate in the Lord's Supper tend to
develop a blindness ignorance is another
one uh we've kind of covered that before
but Revelation 3:17 says uh you do not
know know that you're wretched miserable
poor blind and naked so you can be
unaware the fact that you're blind if
you don't think you're blind then you
think you see and you're not aware of
the blind spot so Saul in our text he's
called Saul Saul later called Paul was
blind literally for three days and he
spent that time in prayer but what you
need to understand is he'd been
spiritually blind for a long time he was
unaware didn't really fully understand
Christ Jesus
but in his blindness he saw things that
others did not see who were not
physically blind so sometimes those who
think that they
are uh able to see or blind or more
blind than people who know they can't
see everything we to look at five ideas
and uh then I'll be done number one and
this is just in your text if you want to
follow with your Bible in Acts chapter 9
I would encourage you to do it I'll try
to get through them pretty quick but so
a blind man Saul and that the blind man
in this case is Saul or Paul a blind man
saw the light that others did not see
and by that you let me just read it I'll
I'll pick up again I won't rad the whole
thing since John tus ran it but verse
three as he journeyed uh then he uh came
near to Damascus and suddenly a light
Shone around him from heaven and uh then
he fell to the ground and heard a voice
saying to him Saul Saul why are you
persecuting me so Paul in his blindness
truly saw the light but we think that by
that what I'm talking about is this
light that actually ended up blinding
him but what he really saw was the light
of the gospel because up until that
moment he did not believe in the gospel
in Acts 22:9 those who were with me
indeed Saw The Light they saw the light
but they did not see the light of the
Gospel in Acts
26:14 we all had fallen to the ground so
it even knocked them all down I mean I
guess you so blind you can't see what
you're doing and and you fall to the
ground in 2 Corinthians 4:4 uh do not
believe lest the light of the Gospel
shine upon them so there is a light that
he saw that wasn't just that blinding
light and that's the light of the gospel
and no one is so blind as one who thinks
he sees or he already already sees like
John chapter 91 through 12 but so he
sees so well that he cannot see the
gospel the light of the Gospel a lot of
people in this world in that position
right now they can see 2020 the second
thing that I want you to see that he
saw it's not
clicking thank you whoever did that a
blind man saw the Lord that others did
not see I'm not going to read all of
this either let me just read a couple of
places verse 5 says and he said who are
you Lord then the Lord said I am Jesus
whom you are
persecuting and then uh he trembling
astonished said Lord what would you have
me to do then the Lord told him what to
do verse 17 it says the Lord Jesus this
is an and I speaking to him later in the
text the Lord Jesus who appeared to you
on the road as you came so this light
wasn't just a light he didn't just see a
light Paul or Saul literally saw the
Lord Jesus in the light so Paul and it
and it caused him to be go blind at
least for three days until he was healed
so Paul in his blindness truly saw the
Lord and that's interesting he was
spiritually blind to the concept of
Jesus he did not believe Jesus was the
son of God he was willing to hold the
clothes of men who stoned a man who
proclaimed Jesus in Acts
22:14 he's chosen you that you should
see the just one so if you have any
doubt that he saw the Son of God he
literally saw him the Son of God
literally went and appeared to a man
who's in absolute utter Rebellion
against him in First Corinthians 15:8
says last of all he was seen by me also
so he always affirmed he didn't just see
a light he saw the Lord Jesus Galatians
1:15 says and it pleased God verse 16 to
reveal his son in me so not only did he
see him but then he spent the rest of
his life revealing what he saw to the
rest of the world and that was his goal
so no one can see the good in Jesus who
knows that Jesus is a sinner or a
regular man John 9: 24 that's clear so I
think the point that you need to get is
Paul in his blindness saw the Lord that
he was really the Risen Lord he never
had believed that G rose from the dead
and now he sees the Risen Lord third
thing this blind man saw and blind man
saw the healing that others did not see
I wanton to read all of it again let me
just start in verse 8 then Saul arose
from the ground and when his eyes were
opened he saw no one he's blind couldn't
see verse nine says and he was three
days without sight now he would have
been longer without sight but he was
healed God healed him and then dropped
down to about verse 11 it says the Lord
said to him arise and go in the street
call straight and that street exists to
this very day and it is a straight
Street and it's the only Straight Street
in Damascus I mean every street is
crooked but not this one goes almost
right down the middle of it so it's a
straight Street streets there and
inquired the house of Jud us for one
called Saul of Tarsus for behold he is
prayed well I guess if you were blind
and the last thing you'd saw was the
very one that you've been trying to
eliminate I think you might be praying
too verse 12 and in a vision he has seen
so even here's an interesting thing
because he had had Vision before this he
could have dreams where he could have
visions in his hand so in a vision uh or
a dream he saw a man named ananas coming
in and putting his hand hand on him so
that he might receive his sight so he
saw the healing uh and others did not
see it now the people had been with him
apparently they were not with him during
the rest of this it appears that he
became kind of separated from them Paul
in his blindness truly saw though the
healing and again yes he saw he was
going to be physically healed but he saw
something else something else was going
on here he's beginning to realize it he
needed spiritual leading and as a result
he spent the rest of his life giving
sight to others that's what Acts
26:18 says that the the Lord had said to
ananas it says that he will be this
chosen man to open their eyes in order
to turn them from Darkness so there's a
different kind of vision that he
suddenly had in Romans 11:25 and then he
was going to give the rest of the world
Romans 11:25 blindness in part has
happened to Israel so he recognized that
even his own people were blind but it
happened in part and he had spent his
life trying to get them to open their
eyes in Ephesians 4: 18 being alienated
from uh uh and being alienated from God
because the blindness of their heart so
literally he had worked the rest of his
life to see the rest of the people and
and this is the thing when you come to
faith in Christ you've literally been
healed of blindness you had spent your
life in blindness and now you can see so
no one sees a way though to find the
Healer I mean you go don't go after a
Healer you don't go to a doctor if he
thinks he's not sick that's the message
of Matthew 9:12 so clearly uh you have
to be convinced that you don't see and
so Paul in his blindness saw the healing
that others didn't see and that is the
Salvation of the world so let me move
along the next thing he saw and this
this is probably the most important
we've gotten to so far and that is a
blind man saw that is Saul saw the grace
that others did not see they just simply
did not see it see Paul saw ananas this
is really neat if you haven't noticed
this before pay close attention to what
I'm fixing to tell you because this this
is probably the neatest thing in this
text he saw Anan in in Acts 9:12 it says
in his vision he has seen a man named I
mean he saw saw a man coming but it's
different to see a man coming and his
name is ananas and God sent ananas to
him that's pretty interesting right
there but that's not the point stay with
me he se he has seen a man named ananas
coming in here's the point ananas is
Greek translated to English his name
would have been
hananiah that would have been his Hebrew
name hananiah means yah or the Lord has
been
gracious follow that just a second he
saw the grace of the
Lord coming to
him Daniel uh was with you know you
remember his three friends Shadrach
Meshach and abido but their real names
were
hananiah the Lord is gracious Michel and
Azariah so that had been enough own name
for a very long time so he saw Grace
coming to him literally and then that's
the reason you find some of the things
that he says let me just pick out a few
things from acts 9: 13-19 I won't read
all of that you know it's ananas came to
him but verse 17 says and ananas went
his way and entered the house and laying
his hands on him he said brother Saul
the Lord Jesus who appeared to you on
the road as you came has sent me has
sent
Grace that you may receive your sight
and be filled with the Holy Spirit
immediately there fell from his eyes
something like scales and he received
his sight at once and he arose and he
was baptized he truly saw see this Paul
Saul in his blindness truly saw the
grace of God in a way that no one had
ever seen the grace of God before not
just because he saw Hannah anah the Lord
extending grace to you but because of
what he perceived about the grace of God
you see he's in absolute Rebellion
against the Lord the Lord had no reason
to reach out to him because he was not
worthy to be reached out to oh no he's a
blasphemer Paul makes this very clear uh
1 Corinthians 15:10 he says by the grace
of God I am what what I am this unmar
favor was extended to me Ephesians 2:8
by Grace you have been saved through
faith and that not of yourselves is a
gift of God do you understand why Paul
emphasized Grace so much 1 Timothy chap
1: 13- 16 I was formerly a blasphemer a
persecutor and an insolent man he said I
wasn't worthy of this I was not living
the life that God should reach out to me
and save me
but I obtained Mercy because I did it
ignorant in in in unbelief I didn't
believe any of this stuff verse 14 and
the grace listen to this now he gets to
it and the grace and the Han and I and
the grace of our Lord was exceedingly
abundant verse 15 however this is still
in 1 Timothy 1 however for this reason I
obtain Mercy that in me first Jesus
Christ might show all longsuffering
as a pattern I mean if God can be that
longsuffering to me where I was you need
to receive that as a pattern of how far
he'd be able to go for anyone a
longsuffering as a pattern to those who
are going to believe on him for
everlasting life so but no one can see
the need for Grace if he thinks he's
already righteous that's the message of
Paul in Romans chap 10 and ver3 when she
says Israel's fallen into that they
think they're already righteous going
about to establish their own
righteousness and they haven't submitted
to the righteousness of God a lot of
church folks love there a lot of church
folks live there so Paul in his
blindness saw the grace that others had
never seen it's fact some folks in
church have never understood this Grace
saves you without works of righteousness
because it reached out to him that way
number next
a blind man saw the proof that others
did not see this is probably to me the
best part of what he saw verse 20 it
says immediately I'm going to read all
of this immediately he preached the
Christ I love that he preached the
Christ the Messiah in the synagogues
that he is the Son of God now by the way
that's very different from the rabbis
the rabbis tried not to ever reach
conclusions
he is the Son of God how does he know
that he saw him verse 21 then all who
heard were
amazed predominantly Jews and said is
this not he who destroyed those who call
on this name in Jerusalem he's been
going around trying to find everybody
that's following the way and Destroy
them put them in prison and has come
here for that purpose so that he might
bring them bound to the chief priest
figure out Chief priest decide what to
do with them verse 22 but Saul increased
all the more in strength and confounded
the Jews who dwelt in Damascus there
were quite a few synagogues apparently
there and he was going to search through
all of them so he's preaching in these
synagogues in Damascus and listen to the
next statement
proving proving that this Jesus is the
Christ now that means that Paul had
studied all these things and he had
never seen the connection and now
suddenly as a scholar of the Old
Testament he went the light appeared
over his head got it and so Paul in his
blindness truly saw the proof of who
Christ was and what he had done what had
he done 2 Corinthians 5:21 he this is
the words of Paul he made him that is
Jesus who knew no sin to be sin for us
that we might become the right
righteousness of God in him what's the
basis of that well he makes the argument
in Galatians 3 and verse 13 again a
different B book but he's plowing home
this concept so you understand the proof
he says Christ has redeemed us from the
curse of the law having become a curse
for us for it is written cursed is
everyone who hangs on a tree where is he
quoting he's quoting the law that he
knew backwards and forward forwards
Deuteronomy 21: 22 and 23 where it says
cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree
therefore this righteous man who had
never done any unrighteousness because
the law has to be found true and it has
to declare the truth him dying on a tree
he has to be declared cursed of God but
in doing that he then became the just
one declared unjust by doing that he
could declare all the unjust just 1
Corinthians 15 though enters another
argument that Paul makes the proof again
1 Corinthians 15:21 says for Since By
Man Came Death by man also came the
resurrection of the Dead for as in Adam
all die even so in Christ all shall be
made alive so literally and he really
makes a detailed argument of this in
Romans chapter 5 but it's brilliant
argument he says if one man by S inning
can cause all mankind to become Sinners
then it also makes perfect sense that
one man could bring righteousness to all
those Sinners so it may sound wrong but
it's perfectly sensible and he makes
that argument Romans 5 but Romans 11 is
the one that I just fall on and it makes
me want to fall on my knees every time I
read it verse 30 for as you were once
disobedient to God talking about the
Gentile Christians he's writing to at
Rome for as you were once disobedient to
God yet have now obtained Mercy through
their Disobedience the Disobedience of
the Jews that allowed Jesus to be killed
and allowed us to receive the Gospel
through this Disobedience you've
obtained Mercy because if he hadn't died
on the cross we had have no hope verse
31 even so these also having been
disobedient that through the mercy shown
you they also so may obtain mercy so if
we could receive Mercy because of
someone's Disobedience who we were once
disobedient he's making an argument here
listen to it so verse 32 for God has
committed them all that's both Jew and
Gentile to Disobedience that he might
have mercy on
all and then he
summarizes if you think that he's not
saying something profound his next
statement makes it clear don't miss it
oh the depth of the riches both of the
wisdom and the knowledge of God how
unsearchable are his judgments and his
ways past finding out so Paul had seen
the proof he'd studied all his life and
suddenly the parts fell together and was
like oh I get it so no one sees the
proof that Christ died and arose from
the dead if they're not fairm minded
acts 17:3 And1 clearly you have to be
fair minded and look at it Paul had not
been Paul had been partisan and suddenly
he was forced to be fairm minded Paul in
his blindness saw the proof that others
did not see and he saw that the Christ
the son of the Living God it was clear
the evidence was there all through the
scriptures and he taught it so this is
the lesson he saw what people who could
see could not see in his blindness he
saw the light of the glory of the Gospel
he saw the Lord Jesus risen from the
dead he saw the healing that he received
but more than that he saw the healing
that he would bring to the whole world
he saw the grace that was expressed to
him that it wasn't something he had
deserved but by uh grace alone without
any of his Works God had already reached
out to him and he saw the proof of how
that Jesus had to be the Christ the son
of the Living God and
others didn't see that who had studied
equally as much in Mark 10 verse 51 it
says that Jesus it says Jesus said to
him what do you want me to do for you
and the blind man said to him raboni or
great one that I may receive my sight
now that's an interesting question that
Jesus asked don't you think if you're a
Healer and you walk up to somebody who's
blind and you know they're blind and you
ask them what would you like me to do
what do you think the answer is going to
be and why did he ask that question well
it's this is an interesting dilemma that
we find oursel in on the subject of
blindness and maybe you haven't studied
the subject but not everybody who's
blind wants to be able to
see now in that a bizarre truth did you
know that was
true this may seem like a strange
question but the truth is not everyone
wants to see and be healed of their
blindness and by the way that's not just
physical that's spiritual as well a lot
of blind people spiritually that do not
want to be woken up don't wake me up
about that Bob Evans uh that's not the
guy who started the restaurant uh wanted
to see and for 51 years he was blind and
he finally found a doctor that could
resolve his problem surgery very
complicated he woke up he could see
here's what he said I never would have
dreamed that yellow is so yellow I don't
have the words I'm Amazed by yellow but
red red is my favorite color I just
can't believe red I can see the shape of
the Moon and I like nothing better than
seeing a jet plane flying across the sky
leaving a vapor Trail and of course
sunrise and sunsets and at night I look
at the stars in the sky and the flashing
line you could never know how wonderful
everything is to
me but that's Bob Evans is that what
everybody reacts who couldn't see and
then could see actually no the majority
do not react that way there was a study
done by a Mar's V seedan who was a
German and the study had been done uh
way back during or before World War II
but because of the bombings of Germany
the book was almost lost vedan was still
alive and he had ma amassed a a bunch of
stories 66 to be exact of cases of
people who were born blind now most of
these cases were born with cataracts on
their eyes and at the time there was no
way to fix it when when they were born
but later on there was technology
developed and then later after the war
uh an English publisher managed to
publish it in 1954 and the name of his
book was space and sight the perception
of space and shape in the
cality of BL I never could say that word
it means inherited blindness before and
after operation he's finally then
translated into English and
published here's the result of those
66 contrary to what you might expect for
many the experience of gaining their
sight was absolutely
terrifying to them nothing made sense
their entire visual field was filled
with what they described as random
floating patches of color that made no
sense many of them reported returning
home to put on
blindfolds the world of blindness made
more sense to them
than the world of sight here's the truth
Paul did not want to see
Jesus it was hard to see
Jesus it shocked him to his
foundation but he didn't put blindfolds
on and he didn't hide from
it what about you and
me do we really want to see the truth or
do we want to just see what we want to
believe do we watch the news programs
that support the concepts we
like and never look at the other side do
we listen to preachers who preach what
we like but don't listen to the ones who
say things we're not comfortable with
what what's our case are we really only
aware of certain level of Truth and we
don't want to hear anything else can we
stand to see the light of the Gospel can
we stand to see the Lord and really see
him can we stand to see healing in the
way it's supposed to be can we stand to
see grace or do we don't want to hear
about Grace we only want the doctrine of
grace to support what I already believe
that I've been raised in do can we stand
to see the proof of Christ in the
cross see others can't see it can you
there's the question in it so can we
accept what Jesus calls us to which is
not blindness but truly being able to
see that's what Paul was called to and
it almost killed him many
times it's not
easy what do you love the most what you
already think or whatever the truth
is that's a question is it that's a
question for for us all if you love the
way you are then this invitation will
have no pull on you
whatsoever you've got it you've got it
figured out you're exactly in the hollow
of God's hand and you don't need
anything you don't need to repent you
don't need to confess you don't need to
be baptized you don't need to come back
to the Lord if your heart's away from
from him you know all this stuff is not
all that important anyway we're at
church on Sunday night there's really no
point in being at church on Sunday night
you
know but if maybe you're willing to
see this might be the invitation that
just pulls you down the aisle can you
see
it it's up to you why don't you come if
we need to while you standing while we
sing
okay
