I don't know if you know me very well
but I'm kind of a geek about science I
don't talk about it a lot from the pull
pit but I am kind of that way uh just to
give you a little insight
uh I was first place in three science
fairs in high school I built three
computers and that was in the 70s when
nobody had a computer and so that was a
way back there um so I'm kind of a geek
about it so I was reading this story
about a freshman at Eagle Rock Jr High
who won first prize in the great Idaho
Fall science fair and as I read it it's
it's kind of a science experiment and
kind of a sociological experiment
actually but it is interesting this
happened back in
1997 back in the days when you were
young and uh he attempted to show in his
study
that we are conditioned as human beings
to become
alarmists okay we tend to go for the
alarmist
thing and as a result of that we tend to
practice what could only be called junk
science that's our tendency we lean into
it we like junk science and we tend to
spread fear about everything our
environment everything thing we kind of
like the
fear so he urged people to in his study
to sign a petition that's right that's
his scientific experiment to sign a
petition demanding strict control or
total elimination of a chemical
dihydrogen monoxide he said it can cause
excessive sweating and vomiting it was a
major component in acid rain and it can
cause severe ear Burns in its gaseous
State and accidental inhaling of this
chemical can literally kill you and it
decreases the effectiveness of
automobile brakes it has been found in
tumors of terminal cancer patients so 50
people came by his desk that day and he
got 43 of them to sign yes we should ban
or eliminate this terrible chemical
dihydrogen monoxide six people were
undecided about it but one actually knew
that dihydrogen monoxide was H2O
water that's junk
science junk
science and I think sometimes we miss
the obvious isn't that interesting
sometimes it's like I I was so thrilled
with your uh Lord's Supper because it's
exactly to the point I'm making today
it's the obvious thing that we tend to
miss here's a question for you when when
did most of us start sinning well the
truth is uh when did our troubles and
our problems with Satan really begin and
most of us know that it happened when we
were young when we were young people we
went off into sin why was it well we
were young we weren't aware of a lot of
things and as a result all these new
feelings were coming our way and we gave
into it and that's true across the board
in Mark 9 it talks about how that
someone was possessed from childhood
second Timothy 2 talks about youthful
lust uh Psalm 25 talks about the sins of
my youth and job talks about the
iniquities of my youth so we we know
that that's when it hits us when Satan
gets a hold of us and we know that's if
we're not careful we can go off into
much deeper sin and some of us did in
fact do just that when did you find
Jesus that becomes the next question
when most of us and most people find
Jesus when does that happen well most of
us Found Jesus when we were still young
in fact you rarely see anybody in their
seven 70s or 80s obeying the gospel
we've had like two or three in this
church since I've been here in 27 years
it's just rare that just doesn't happen
Ecclesiastes 12 says remember now your
creator in the days of your youth before
the difficult days come and the years
draw near when you say I have no
pleasure in them there comes a point
where you get hard-hearted about things
and you're not really willing to listen
to things in this life First Kings 18
talks about I I feared the Lord from my
youth that's when it tends to happen and
Psalm 71 talks about I trust you I
trusted you from my youth Psalm 71 says
you taught me from my youth so we know
that it really is young people that is
the target of our Evangelistic efforts
because that's the people who tend to
change well how did you find Jesus how
do most people find Jesus well the truth
is that most of us Found Jesus by being
taught God's word in fact there's
probably very few who didn't find Jesus
that way I'm not saying you couldn't
obey the gospel with just a knowledge of
things without actually looking at the
Bible that's probably happened but we
know that the vast majority literally
sat down and studied the word of God
Psalm 119 says how can a young man
cleanse his way by taking heed according
to your word so we know you've got to
give some time to the word of God or
Matthew 19 a young men said all these
things that God Jesus was talking about
have I kept from my youth so the
tendency is that you need to study the
word of God when you're young if you're
going to find Jesus which brings us to
another question where did you find
Jesus if you found Jesus Jus where do
most people find Jesus and the truth is
most of us Found Jesus later after we'd
sinned a little
bit by our
family and someone encouraging us to go
to church and Bible
classes that's just the way it is that's
the way most of us did it in Genesis
17:7 it says I will establish my
Covenant between me and you and your
descendants talking to Abraham I'm going
to establish my Covenant with your kids
your descendants after you in their
generation for an Everlasting Covenant
to be God to you and your descendants
after you all your children and your
children's children in Deuteronomy 6 and
verse 7 it specifically targets your
children it says teach them diligently
to your children when you sit down when
you walk when you lie down and when you
rise up absolutely all the time every
every place that you could be you should
be talking to your children about the
word of God but here's the question
where would you expect to find Jesus and
this is interesting because it's like
the Bible do you know the Bible got lost
once they got lost there's only one copy
apparently I mean you know they didn't
have copy machines they didn't have
printing presses they had a copy that
Moses had written can't his handwriting
right or the uences whoever wrote it
down literally literally they lost
it now where would you think they found
it just think for a minute where would
you think they found it they found it in
the temple of the lord well
duh yeah of course that's where you
would find it's so obvious but is it too
obvious I mean was it not too obvious
when nobody seen it lately or read it
lately and nobody made a copy of it so
in worship and in Bible class every
Sunday we teach the
Bible
hello and and by the way Foundation
Christian Academy teaches the Bible
every
day where do you think you're going to
find
it uh and by the way FCA starts on the
10th pray for them pray for our Sunday
school pray for us pray for every class
that we have so I'm going to look at
three
truths uh that if
applied I think you'd be able to help
your children better find Jesus I
believe young people you'd find Jesus if
you'd listen here we go where would you
find Jesus Jesus they found Jesus in the
house of God interesting eh where would
you think you would find him if he's the
son of
God where would you think you would find
the Son of God Luke
2:46 now so it was that after three days
they found him in the
temple therefore it's not really
surprising that later on in the same
chapter verse 52 if you got your Bible
open turn down to verse 2 it says say
should should this shock anybody is this
not obvious since he wanted to be in the
temple and he was in the temple that
Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature
and in favor with God in man do you want
to increase in wisdom and in stature and
in favor with God in man young people
where might you should be Jesus called
the temple where people worship the
house of God Luke 6 and: 46 is one place
he said that how he went into the house
of God took and ate the showbread
talking about David but this is Jesus
just talking and also gave some to those
with him which is not lawful for any but
the priest to eat the point is is that
Jesus called the temple or the
Tabernacle the house of God now we all
but especially our youth need to want to
go to worship and to Sunday
school Psalm 122 verse1 I was glad when
they said to me let us go into the house
of the Lord that's David I was glad when
somebody invited me to church I was glad
when somebody said would you like to
come to my class
Charles uh
Spurgeon he's talking about this
particular Psalm because this particular
Psalm is What's called the just it's one
of the four Ascent Psalms and the ascent
Psalms are Psalms that we're saying as
you approached the Lord and here's what
uh Spurgeon said David wrote it for the
people to sing at the time of their
goings to the holy Feast at Jerusalem it
comes third in the series and appear
appears to be suitable to be sng when
the people had entered the gates and
their feet stood within the city
approaching the temple of God I was glad
when they said to me let us go into the
house of the Lord you know 1 Timothy 315
says that the house of God the house of
God right it's not just the pillar of
truth but it is the Church of the Living
God you are sitting Within the house of
God and it has nothing to do with that
thing it has th to do with this this is
the house of
God I was glad so it it's obvious that
we too would probably find Jesus exactly
where you would expect to find the Son
of God you would find him where in the
house of God wouldn't that make sense
number
two they found young Jesus in the midst
of teachers it says in back to Luke 2
and: 46 we're just really teaching one
verse this morning verse 46 says now it
was that after three days they found him
that is Jesus in the temple sitting in
the midst of the
teachers therefore it is not surprising
at all that verse 52 says again I remind
you Jesus increased in class in wisdom
and in stature and in favor with God in
man why he sat in the midst of
teachers you see when we think we don't
need teachers we become one of the
dumbest people on the planet about any
subject that you want to talk about
Jesus had many teacher Jesus had many
teach Jesus had many teachers Jesus had
many teachers and we should have and we
need many teachers First Corinthians 4:1
15 for though you might have 10,000
instructors in Christ well that's not
rational Paul well maybe not but it does
indicate that Paul expected you to have
more than
one 10,000 in structures in Christ yet
you do not have many fathers for in
Christ Jesus I've begotten you through
the gospel so you can only have one
person probably generally that teaches
you and baptizes you yeah but you should
have many teachers in the kingdom and we
all we all but especially our youth need
good Bible
teachers
plural second Timothy 3:15 from a
childhood you have known the holy
scriptures how's that happen which are
able to make you wise for salvation
through faith which is in Christ Jesus I
don't know if you know this but I'm not
really good with little
kids I was a youth Minister once upon a
time and I was really not very good at
it Keegan I'll just tell you straight up
okay because I think I just
didn't I don't mean to be ugly but I
didn't particularly care for teenagers
okay Hebrews 5 and
verse2 when for the time
you you listen to what it's saying when
for the time that you you you you you
you ought to be what
teachers are you hearing
it it's not talking to the preacher and
the ones who are
teaching every one of you you say well
everybody shouldn't be a teacher because
I'm such a great one that's usually
arrogance
talking okay we all need to be a better
teacher cuz there's people you're going
to contact with that nobody else is
going to contact with you got to be the
voice you got to be the voice nobody
will be the voice if you aren't the
voice you're waiting it's not all Bible
classes don't happen at church
building amen so it is it too obvious
that we too would find Jesus where even
today in the midst of
teachers which we're all supposed to be
number
next I know it's just three but it's fun
to say that
because they found young Jesus in the
study of
scripture it says in verse 46 back to
Luke 2 if you're there with me now so it
was that after three days they found him
in the temple sitting in the midst of
the teachers listen to what he was doing
both listening to them
you know there's no teaching if there
ain't nobody listening young people when
you go to your Bible class try to listen
don't try to talk to your friend try to
listen amen parents amen parents support
the teacher system within the church and
encourage your kid to zip it until
they're called
upon oh that's not you need to learn to
be quiet until it's your turn amen we
all don't need to learn it's okay to
talk a little bit but try to keep that
to the beginning and to the end and like
some can't do that in church passing
notes on the internet talking to each
other that happens all the time even in
church and it shouldn't but it does even
by adults by the way but let me get back
because that's off subject stay with me
listening to them and asking them
questions if you really want to learn
you got to listen and you got to ask
questions amen listen ask
questions therefore it is not surprising
at verse 52 backs all this up with this
statement and class Say it With Me Jesus
increased
in wisdom and in stature and in favor
with who God and
man why cuz he listened and asked
questions when it came to the scriptures
now jesus' custom was to listen to
question but he had more than that to
read the scriptures to study the
scriptures and to teach the scriptures
how do I know that well here this
passage here I don't have it on the
screen but you can turn to it Luke 4:
16-30 so he ca he came this is Jesus
came to Nazareth where he been brought
up and as his custom was this is what he
did every Sabbath if he could his custom
was he went into the synagogue on the
Sabbath day and stood up to read he
wanted to read the text himself and he
was handed the book of the prophet
Isaiah and when he had opened the book
which is a scroll in this case he found
the place where it was written the
spirit of the Lord is upon me because it
he hath anointed me to preach the gospel
to the poor he has sent me to heal the
brokenhearted Proclaim Liberty to the
captives and recovering of sight to the
blind to set at Liberty those who are
oppressed to proclaim the acceptable
year of the Lord now if you've studied
Isaiah you know exactly brother if you
studied Isaiah you know exactly that
that is a Messianic verse spoken
specifically to the Son of God when he
was going to come upon this Earth and in
fact most of the last part of the book
is that as well verse 20 then says then
he closed the book or the scroll and
gave it back to the tended and sat down
why did he sit down because they tended
to teach when they sat he sat down in
the eyes of all who were in The
Synagogue were fixed on him what's he
going to say what's he going to say
about that passage and he began to say
to them today this scripture is
fulfilled in your hearing the prophecy
is about me is what he's saying so all
bore witness to him and marveled at the
gracious Words which proceeded out of
his mouth and we all but especially our
youth need to be prepared to study to
read to teach to ask questions to listen
Ezra puts it this way Ezra 7:10 Ezra had
prepared his heart to seek the law of
the Lord and to do it and to teach
it you
know the question that you need to ask
yourself is is it
surprising that studying the
Bible you might find
Jesus just study things you might never
teach Rex that's right do y'all know I
do that all the time I I'm not just
studying for a sermon I'm studying stuff
I'll never teach I just don't have
time you need to do
that don't study to teach a Bible class
study to study to know the word of God
to know the word of God second Timothy
2:15 how do you rightly divide the word
how do you handle or right the word of
God you got to stick your nose in
it you can't do it by just walking up on
Sunday morning if you're a Bible class
teacher and the first time you look at
your notes is Sunday morning when you're
about to get up in front of your class
you have not been a very good
teacher it is too obvious that we too
would find Jesus
in the simple idea of studying the
scriptures it's just too obvious but
maybe it's so obvious you can't see it
right back to Sean it's so obvious you
can't even see it so it's we find Jesus
in the house of God we find Jesus in the
midst of teachers we find Jesus in the
study of
scripture that's where Jesus was that's
where he is now you know it's too
obvious that we would find Jesus there
is it is it really too obvious that you
young folks trying to follow Jesus
should do the
same is that too obvious parents you
want your kid to find
Jesus because young Jesus was found
there it makes sense that he increased
in wisdom and in stature and favor with
God and man and it makes sense that your
children and your teenagers will would
increase in wisdom and in stature and
favor with God in man you want to make a
man out of him you want to make a young
lady out of her she needs Jesus in the
scriptures where will our young people
be found well Matthew
24:46 the Lord will come one day and
will he find you so doing it
says Mark 13:36 or will he come and find
find you sleeping a lot of people are
several of our members right now are
asleep at home right
now they're not watching right now so I
can say that I'm not offending anybody
the people I'm talking about is asleep
so don't worry about
it don't get upset oh we shouldn't talk
about people at home well if they're
asleep I don't think they're going to
get offended unless they watch it
later and some are watching are you
watching
we obviously
know the answer to all this it's a great
question how shall the young secure
their heart how does that happen well I
think we know Isaac Watts my favorite
song writer Oh by far he lived from 1674
to 1748 you realize how long ago that
was that's a long time ago right his
father was a school master so his dad
was Smart Guy taught him from when he
was young in fact as a child he was
studying greek latin and Hebrew as a
child when I say that I'm not expanding
it much because by the time he was seven
he was writing respectable poetry and
verse 7 years old because he was already
a good student at 16 he studied under
Thomas row and at 24 he became an
assistant minister at 28 he became a
minister at 31 he wrote a book called
horay lria which is a great book on the
subject of poetry and all in
33 he had his hymns he had written so
many published in a book at 46 he had a
greater collection of work that was
published and at 54 he got his DD his
doctrine of divinity at the University
of Edinburgh here are some songs he
wrote If you think I've exaggerated his
contribution to your and My
Worship ever heard of Joy to the
World Come Ye that love the
Lord we're marching to
Zion Come Holy Spirit Heavenly
Dove Our God our help in ages past
my favorite When I Survey the Wondrous
Cross Alas and Did My Savior
Bleed this is the day the Lord hath made
when I can read my title clear you know
those songs Don't you've been around the
church a little while now you ain't been
around the church a while you don't know
what to talking about but uh you
know here's the answer to our problem
more than anything else is he had eight
verses in a song I want you to see not
four not three like we sing I want you
to hear all eight of the
verses oh
sorry got to get past
it I'll do them two at a time how shall
the young secure their heart and guard
their lives from sin Thy word the
choicest rules imp parts to keep the
conscience clean when once it enters to
the mind it spreads such light abroad
the meanest Souls instruction find and
raise their thoughts to
God T like the sun a Heavenly light that
guides us all the day and through the
dangers of the night a lamp to lead our
way the men that keep thy law with care
and meditate Thy word grow wiser than
their teachers are and better know the
Lord thy precepts make me truly wise I
hate the sinner's Road I hate my own
vain thoughts that rise but love thy law
my God the starry Heavens by rule obey
the Earth maintains her place and these
thy servants night and day thy skill and
power
Express but still thy law and gospel
Lord have lessons more Divine not earth
stands firmer than Thy word nor Stars so
nobly shine Thy word is Everlasting
truth how pure is every page that holy
book shall guide Our Youth and as a 66
yearold I can promise you and well
support our age and well support our
age so the answer stares us right in the
face it's so obvious is it
not how do you miss it
we choose as a as a society to ignore it
the Bible is denigrated on every ter it
is true my
friend everything it says happen just
exactly like it says every place it says
existed existed and believe me as a true
skeptic and scientist background I've
looked I promised you I trust this more
than I trust any of
you that includes my wife and my kids
and even my
grandma sometimes we ignore it even at
FCA sometimes we ignore it even in our
Bible classes sometimes we ignore it
even in
church sometimes we ignore it even at
home
am sometimes we ignore it even in our
heart but it's
true it's the truth how shall the young
secure their
heart well i' do what you would
naturally think where would you find
Jesus in the house of
God Among the teachers of
God studying the word of God
if You' never given your life to the
Lord we're always stand ready to serve
that lesson had been on that subject but
if you need to hear today that Christ
Jesus is risen I'm telling you right now
he is
risen if you would believe that repent
make a change in your heart to serve him
to make him Lord of your life and
confess that you believe that we would
be willing to baptize you today might
take a minute or two we'd do it if you
need to that then come while we stand
and while we say
the
