be very careful all right guys if you're
going to lead after we get through with
this please just come up and sit on the
front row so we know who all is coming
next and any any man that wants to lead
be happy to have you try uh lead one or
two songs amen we're just going to go
this oldfashioned style the way we used
to do it hope you've had a good day is
this really sounding loud to y'all
maybe I do like that say better say
little better I want to talk just a
little bit about Acts chapter 8 in fact
I plan on talking about this three times
Acts chapter 8 and in Acts chapter 8
there's some unusual circumstances come
up three different times uh through
Phillip Philip's kind of an outsider you
may not be aware of that Philip's like
an outsider and he makes conversions or
as part of conversions in Acts chapter 8
and there's three occasions and three
different
conversions and uh is this thing
fluctuating to y'all sound like it's
dying on me any U so that's what I want
to talk to you just a moment about uh
it's what's interesting I want to talk
about a non bigoted
conversion uh the background of this is
that there were a lot of bigoted
attitudes among the Jews
uh extremely so toward the
Samaritans they had no care for them in
many respects let me read you just a few
verses John 49 says the Jews have no
dealings with Samaritans they didn't
deal with them at all in John 4:22 it
says you worship this is Jesus speaking
to a Samaritan you worship what you do
not know we know what we worship for
salvation is of the
Jews in John 8 and verse 48 talking to
Jesus because he had been friendly
toward Samaritan says you are a
Samaritan and have a
demon in Luke 9:52 it says he sent
Messengers before his face this is Jesus
as they went they entered the village of
the Samaritans to prep prepare for him
but they did not receive him because his
face was set for the journey to
Jerusalem and when his disciples James
and John uh saw this they said Lord do
you want us to command fire to come down
from heaven and consume them just as
Elisha did Elijah did so there was no
love loss and yet you find that Jesus in
his great is this fluctuating to me are
y'all running this up and
down oh that's he he up there now okay
so uh Matthew 28 uh talks about he
wanted the gospel to go to All Nations
Mark 16:15-16 says all the world and
Jesus specifically wanted the Samaria to
receive the Gospel in Acts chap 1 ver8
it says but you shall be witnesses to me
in Jerusalem and in all Judea and
Samaria and the ends of the Earth so
there was this desire for the gospel to
go to the Samaria through Jesus but
that's not the way the Jews felt in Acts
6 and verse one we have this this is the
church is in existence now in those days
when the number of disciples were
multiplied There Rose a complaint
against the Hebrews by the helist that's
the Greek speaking members of the church
because their widows were neglected in
the daily distribution that is food that
would be taken to widows who had nothing
and so there was even in the church
still animosity toward people who were
not like them whether they be helist
that is just speaking a different
language predominantly or being from
Samaria Phillip himself was an outsider
they used Phillip among the The Men Who
distributed the food because his name
Phillip that's a Greek name he was
obviously not from around the Jerusalem
area so he was probably a helist himself
that means he was predominantly a Greek
speaking family or at least his family
could speak Greek we know that the some
of the best Greek in the New Testament
is Peter's Greek in first and second
Peter and so we know Peter could speak
Greek fluently and we know that probably
Philip could too and so as a result he
was the proper guy to go and deal with
the hell my point is that that sometimes
you have to be an outsider almost or see
yourself as an outsider before you'll
reach out to someone who is an outsider
to your group who feels like you're
bigoted toward them and so I want to
deal with that really quickly just a
little three little thoughts one is from
the it's all from the text if you got
your Bible open Acts 8: 4-6 says
therefore those who were scattered went
everywhere preaching the word then
Philip went down to the city of Samaria
and preached Christ he's this helist
Christian and preached Christ to them
and the multitudes with one Accord
heeded the things spoken by philli
hearing and seeing
the Miracles which he did so these
Outsiders had a non bigoted conversion
through Phillip as they heard the
preaching and so Philip Phillip Philip
Phillip preached the word everywhere he
went even to the Samaritans and we could
say that Philip not only preached the
word everywhere but he preached the
Christ everywhere even to the Samaritans
but what's interesting because it says
there were one Accord so he preached the
sameness wherever he went he preached
the same gospel Philip himself as an
outsider made a non bigoted conversion
in Samaria as the Samaritan Outsiders
just simply heard the preaching of the
word and of Christ the second little
thought is that these Outsiders had a
non- bigoted conversion as they saw the
power that Philip was displaying by the
miraculous power of God it goes on to
say verses 6 and 7even and the multitude
with one Accord heeded the things spoken
by Phillip hearing and seeing the
Miracles which he did for unclean
spirits crying with a loud voice came
out of many who were possessed and many
who were paralyzed and lame were healed
so here's the display of the power
through Phillip who is an outsider two
Outsiders Phillip's power was over first
and foremost in this text over
possession and whatever possession
was whether it was a demon or just a
nasty Spirit or someone who's extremely
depressed or mentally deranged whatever
you want to feel good about he was able
to overpower that through the power of
God and Philip also had power over
paralysis now whatever caused that
whether it be a disease or some kind of
degenerative thing to your backbone is
some of you've experienced or some kind
of weakness that he could do nothing
about and somebody couldn't walk he had
power over that and Philip also had
power over what we might call prays
things that are can be injuries like he
says lame and lameness actually comes
from an injury so some kind of injury or
damage that can be done to you imagine
if you've been mimed or lame by
something and someone has the power to
resolve that by touching you so Philip
himself as this Outsider made this non
bigoted conversion to Samaritans and
Samaritans himself would have felt like
Outsiders because they knew that this
gospel was for them because they saw the
power so they heard the preaching they
saw the power and then this is what
happened it says in Acts 8:8 and there
was great joy in that City these
Outsiders had a non bigoted conversion
as they rejoiced with their people see
Samaras got excited several times he got
excited in Luke 17 uh when Jesus came
they were the whole Samaritan cities
rejoiced when Jesus came in John chapter
4 and were staying and Samaritans by
Jesus were often the ones that Jesus
used as examples of how you ought to be
like Luke chapter 10 the Good Samaritan
so he was reaching out to them but the
Jews
weren't and he reached out to the helist
but the Jews weren't you see Philip
himself
away shouldn't they and shouldn't the
point be to reach the people then maybe
we need to see ourselves as Outsiders
know it's hard to see things differently
uh Deb and I got this book just this
week Cole Arthur Riley is writing a book
the book is called this here flesh and I
I got to be honest with you it's it's a
struggle for me but the point is is that
sometimes you need to challenge yourself
to see things differently it's so easy
just to see people the way you've always
seen them because of course you're
right all of you are right about all
your
feelings but then to actually get beyond
what you perceived and you're certain of
to try to not be bigoted as you reach
out with the gospel that's a different
thing for centuries uh people believed
Aristotle was right Aristotle's smart
guy everybody believed Aristotle was
right Aristotle said a long long time
ago that if take two objects into a high
building and you drop them the one that
will hit the ground first is the heavier
object sounded reasonable everybody
believed it until of course a guy named
Galileo Galileo in uh
1589 which was 2,000 years later took a
50 lb ball and a 10 PB ball and went to
the top of the Tower of Piza which leans
and he got got a whole bunch of
philosophers and scientists at the base
to watch it he rolled them both off of
the ledge at the same time and they hit
the ground at the same time now we know
it that that's the rule it doesn't have
anything to do with your weight the law
is gravity is at the same speed for
everything that falls and it hits the
ground at the same time the only time
that's not the case is if the air
interferes with it everything falls at
the same rate of speed we know that but
of course
they still believed Aristotle and after
they witnessed that they said
no still the heavier object hits the
ground first and Aristotle had to be
right that's our
problem if you don't see yourself as an
outsider you always assume what you've
always thought was
right and you never reach out to the
outsider you have to see yourself as an
outsider
to reach out to The
Outsiders if we saw oursel that way who
might we
reach who might we
reach philli reached Samaria if you're
here tonight and you're feeling a little
bit on the outside hey so do I amen so
do I love for you to be a part of the
outside group come join us outside the
city wall where Jesus was crucified if
you would repent rep of your sins
confess the name of Christ and be
baptized and come join the rest of
Outsiders God bless you come if you need
to Why Don't We Stand and why we
sing
