so Rex why are you teaching about Old
Testament tithing that's the Old
Testament well there's several reasons
one is most of us are actually quite
ignorant of the Old Testament and I
don't mean to insult you but the truth
is is that most of us don't study much
of the Bible anymore anyway and they
certainly don't study the Old Testament
and if you study the Old Testament you
mainly just study the stories you don't
study the law and what I'm going to deal
with is primarily out of the law today
and most people don't read it or study
it because it seems boring but there's
more reasons it's given to learn that's
what we're told Romans 15:4 we are
literally told for whatever things were
written before were written for our
learning he intended us to learn these
things whether you learn them or not he
wants you to learn them that we through
the patience and comfort of scripture
might have hope but more it is also
profitable for us to learn it and second
Timothy 3:16 and7 it says all scripture
is given by inspiration of God so it
comes from him and is profitable for
Doctrine for reprove for correction for
instruction in righteousness that the
man of God may be complete thoroughly
equipped for every good work now I'm
going to challenge your thinking a
little bit on the tithe I've studied it
a lot I generally don't agree with much
of anything I here taught on this
subject so I want to trying to deal with
it in a way that maybe you can perceive
what I'm perceiving and that is first of
all there's two types of tithes in the
Old Testament predominantly that
actually hit them the hardest the one
was actually to the king you had to give
a tenth of all you had to the king now
that wasn't all that he took he was
capable of taking other things if he
came to your house and said I want that
guess what he got that whatever that was
and so you had to turn it over to him by
the way if you don't realize it that's
exactly the state you and I are in if
the federal government comes to your
house and says I want that guess what
they get it and you you're happy that
that's all they get and they go away so
that's still the case but so the king
got immediately a tithe and then of
course the temple or the the the body of
Believers uh that literally led the
worship assembly all the priests and
Levites got the tithe that's not all
that happened though and I don't want to
leave it there but I do want you to
understand that the they used these ties
for specific things and sometimes they
got more benefit from it than you might
realize because there's a tendency to
think that it went away and they got
nothing out of that that's not really a
reflection of what went on uh they
worshiped every Sabbath wherever they
lived and that was by law the law is
very clear on that Leviticus 23 a lot of
people don't read it I've heard people
get get up and say there's no U
justification for having synagogues in
the Old Testament that's just ignorance
you don't really know the law if you
believe that I've heard many preachers
say that it's just not true Leviticus
23:3 is the text that teaches you to
have synagogues it says literally six
days shall work be done but the seventh
day is a Sabbath of solemn rest a holy
convocation that means a holy assembly I
I think not being translated into a holy
assembly May confuse people but it
literally is a holy assembly you shall
do no work on it it is the Sabbath of
the Lord in all your dwellings and since
you can't make a trip to the temple
every Sabbath because the distance of a
trip on a Sabbath was 2,000 steps so
everybody didn't live 2000 steps from
Jerusalem so they were to worship
wherever they lived wherever it was in
an assembly and so they built synagogues
now there weren't as many before the
carrying away into Babylon but there
were there I know that because Psalm 74
and verse 8 says they have burned up all
the meeting places of God so literally
they had many of them 2 Kings 4:23
references these Sabbath places that
they worshiped and we know that Jesus in
the New Testament approved of that
thinking that it was correct because we
have several references to Jesus going
into the synagogue and participating so
it wasn't a hearsay maybe thing it was a
Biblical concept they had synagogues and
it was wrong to not have synagogues
that's the truth so you need to quit
listening to people who tell you there's
no justification for church buildings
they took the same concept built
synagogues we take the same concept we
build Church buildings okay so you need
to quit listening to people who don't
really know the Bible very well this
another thing they use the tithe they Ed
the Free Will offering and the half
shekele to pay for these things now what
were those well Exodus 25:2 says speak
to the children of Israel that they
bring me an offering from everyone who
gives it willingly with his heart you
shall take my offering so this is the
first time this was done but it was done
over and over and over and over and over
and over again just like we take up a
collection every Sunday Exodus 25 verse
8 says make me a sanctuary that I may
dwell among them the Jews took that
concept and applied it also to the
sanctuary wherever they worshiped in all
their dwellings because they had to have
a holy assembly wherever they lived and
they applied it that way and rightfully
so as I've just showed you Exodus 30
verse1 15 says the rich shall not give
more and the poor shall not give less
than half a shekele so this was
automatically everybody was required to
give this this or you weren't a part of
the body uh when you give an offering to
the Lord to bank an atonement for
yourselves how much was a half checkle I
won't get into the details of it I'll
just simply say it's somewhere between
today on today's schedule between 50 and
$75 if we applied the same rule every
single solitary individual not Mom and
Dad but every single solitary individual
would be required every year to give at
least $50 to
$75 so those of you who never give might
want to think about that just a second
okay number next this is really
important I'm going to do a lot of
reading here I would like you to get
your Bibles out and read these passages
with me because there is a great deal
amount of ignorance on what I'm fixing
to talk about this is the first slide
with reading and there will be a second
one after this so I encourage you to get
your Bibles out and read along with me
what we want to deal with is like like
those of old they benefited uh from
their giving I know that may sound wrong
but they did they benefited so not only
did their ministers their widows their
orphans and even strangers who weren't
Jews and weren't Believers benefited
from the tithe let's just take a few and
start reading I'm going to start in
Deuteronomy
12:1 this is the
law then there will be the place where
the Lord your God chooses to make his
name abide there you shall bring all
that I command you your burn offerings
your sacrifices your tithes and by the
way the word tithe means tenth the heave
offerings of your hand and all your
choice offerings which you vow to the
Lord and you shall rejoice and that's
critical pay attention to that word and
you shall rejoice before the Lord your
God I'll come back to tell you what that
means in just a minute it's obvious the
Jews knew what this meant but we tend
not to and you shall rejoice before the
Lord we think that's just worship that's
true that's not all it meant and your
sons and your daughters your male and
your female servants and the levite who
is within your Gates since he has no
portion nor inheritance with you now
going to Deuteronomy 12 just a few
verses down verses
17-9 you may not eat within your gate
what eat what within your Gates the
tithe are you listening you gave it you
going to eat it I thought you gave it
right that's what I mean by folks
haven't actually read this very
carefully and you may eat within your
Gates the tithe of your grain or the new
wine you may not eat this by the way
your new wine or your oil of the
firstborn of your herd or your flocks of
any of your offerings which you vow of
your free will offerings or of the heath
heave offerings of your hand Verse 18
but you must eat you must eat them
before the Lord your God in the place
which the Lord your God chooses and you
and your sons and your daughters your
your male servants and your female
servants and the levite who is within
your gate and you shall rejoice this is
what it means when it says rejoice and
you shall rejoice you're eating all this
food at the T Tabernacle the temple
before the Lord your God in all to which
you will put your hands take heed to
yourselves that you do not forsake the
levite as long as you live in your land
are you catching on a lot of the tith
was eaten by the person who gave
it
oh Deuteronomy 14 Stay With Me Now
Deuteronomy 14 beginning in verse 21
verse through 20 uh I'll start in 20 22
you shall truly tithe or give a tenth of
all the increase of your grain so you
don't take everything you already own
like a piece of your house and divide it
up into tents and give that it's what
you profit right like an income right
just like you make an income you shall
truly tithe all the increase of your
grain that the field produce uses year
by year so there is a third year tithe
but this is specific every year this is
what you do and you shall eat before the
Lord your God in the place where he
chooses to make his name abide the tithe
of your grain and your new wine and your
oil of the firstborn of your herds and
of your flocks that you may learn to
fear the lord your God but if your
journey is too f long for you that you
are not able to carry the tithe I got
five I don't know 10 sheep and it's just
me and my son I can't get that I can't
carry them that far so I'm not to carry
the tithe or if the place where the Lord
your God chooses to put his name is too
far from you let's say you lived up in
Rome when the Lord your God has blessed
you verse 25 then you shall exchange it
for money this is the reason there
exchange tables in the Tabernacle to
exchange the money that they had brought
for this very purpose take the money in
your hand and go to the place which the
Lord your God chooses now listen to this
you really need to pay attention to the
Old Testament closer verse 26 and you
shall spend that money for what for
whatever your heart desires for oxen or
sheep for wine or similar drink for
whatever your heart desires you shall
eat there before the Lord your God and
you shall rejoice you know what the word
Rejoice now means you and your household
you shall not forsake the levite who is
within your gates for he has no part or
inheritance with you so anybody who
thinks that it was never meant for you
to benefit from giving hasn't read their
Bible very closely it is primarily for
you everything you give ends up blessing
you just about there's very little of it
doesn't come around and end up blessing
you in some kind of way they tithe and
they benefited directly from these
things predominantly during the feast
now that's not all they're giving I'm
not trying to say to you that that was
it but it is the predominant thing that
they did now what I want to get to now
cuz I'm going to the next slide up here
so I'm told you we're going to do some
reading so stay with me I want to teach
you something else that I have heard in
members say things like yeah but we
don't give to help somebody who is not a
good person we only give to Brethren
that's not taught in the Old Testament
it's not taught in the New Testament but
people who think they're very
conservative very biblical want to tell
you you don't give it to people who
aren't true Christians that's just not
so and it's not taught anywhere in the
Bible anywhere the opposite is taught
stay with me it says in Deuteronomy 14
beginning in verse 28 at the end of
every third year this is that third year
tithe you shall bring out the tithe of
your produce of that year and store it
up within your gate and the levite be
because he has no portion nor
inheritance with you and the stranger
he's not talking about a member of the
people of Israel who just doesn't live
near you who happens to be around he's
not talking about that he's talking
about a non-israelite and the stranger
and the fatherless and the Widow who are
within your gate and the fatherless and
the widows be they had to be told to
help them out because under their
theological position if you lost
somebody terrible things happen to you
then God was against them and you should
kick them like everybody else does if
God kicks them you should kick them too
that's what they tended to think so they
had to be taught to help people who had
gone through hard times you understand
that so the fatherless and the widows
needed to be helped so stay with me who
are within your Gates may come and eat
they may come and eat so you're going to
feed these people who aren't necessarily
in your opinion the best people on the
planet that's right that's exactly what
it's saying come and eat and be
satisfied that the Lord your God may be
uh May bless you in all the work of your
hand which you do now let's go to
Deuteronomy 16 just so that you know
this is not one passage this is the
whole law teaches this Deuteronomy 16
verse 11 you shall rejoice get that word
Rejoice again that's about eating you
shall rejoice be before the Lord your
God you and your son and your daughter
I'm in Deuteronomy 16:1 if you're
wondering your male servant and your
female servant the levite who is within
your gate The Stranger that's a non-jew
and the fatherless of and the widows who
are among you at the place where the
Lord your God chooses to make his name
abide that would apply to either the
temple or to the synagogue verse 12 and
you shall remember that you were a slave
in Egypt so you were once a stranger in
a foreign land and you shall be careful
to observe these statutes verse 13 you
shall observe the Feast of Tabernacle
seven days when you have gathered from
your threshing floor and from your wine
PR verse 14 and you sh Rejoice that's
feasting in your Feast you and our your
sons and your daughters your male
servants your female servants and the
levite The Stranger and the fatherless
and the widows who are within your gate
we know we're supposed to help
fatherless and widows we're aware of
that but sometimes we're not aware that
we're supposed to be willing to help the
stranger Deuteronomy 24 now let me show
you more Deuteronomy 24 beginning at
verse 19 this is all the law my friend
when you read re your harvest in your
field and forget a sheath in the field
you shall not go back to get it it shall
be for the stranger the fatherless and
the Widow that the Lord your God May
bless you in all the work of your hand
verse 20 when you beat your olive trees
you shall not go over the boughs again
it shall be for the stranger the
fatherless and the widows when you
gather The Grapes of your vender you
shall not glean it afterwards not do it
again it shall be for the stranger the
fatherless and the widows Deuteronomy 26
it says beginning in verse 12 when you
have finished laying aside all the tithe
of your increase in the third year
that's the third year tithe the year of
tithing and have given it to the levite
the stranger the fatherless and the
widows so that they may eat within your
Gates that's the synagogues where you're
at and be filled then you shall say
before the Lord your God I have removed
the holy tithe from my house and also
have given them to the levite the
stranger the fatherless and the widows
according to all your Commandments which
you have commanded me I have not
transgressed your commandment nor have I
forgotten them Deuteronomy 10: 18 and 19
he administered Justice for the
fatherless and the Widow and loves the
stranger giving him food and clothing
lest you think in the Old Testament they
didn't do this and then in the New
Testament people who think you're
supposed to do this are just out of
sight that you're only supposed to help
the Saints you haven't read your Bible
close as you should listen to me it says
the wiow loves the stranger giving him
food and clothing therefore love the
stranger For You Were Strangers in the
land of
Egypt it's the shoe you once
War it's imbalanced thinking to think
giving is only for the brothers and the
sisters but it's also imbalanced
thinking to think that we don't benefit
from the giving all of us have benefited
from it you're sitting in a building
that was given to you you got the air
conditioning on right now you're
benefiting from that the lessons are
being taught to you is being done by the
money you've given you're actually
eating of the money that you've
given so you're doing nothing
differently than they do believe it or
not and numbers 18 just unless you think
this applies to you and doesn't apply to
me it's always been the way that it
applied to people who in Ministry just
as much as it applies to you it says uh
speak thus to the Levites that's the
ones who apply you know got them taught
and say to them when you take from the
children of Israel the tithe which I
have given you from them as your
inheritance then you shall offer up a
heath offering of it to the Lord a tenth
of the tithe so they must every one of
us must give a tent too so you don't get
out of it
Pharisees were strict about their
tithing herbs and other things but then
more vital things were getting omitted
and that's critically a problem Matthew
23:24 blind guides you strain out a KN
and then up swallowing a camel what's he
talking about Leviticus 11 this is the
law again Old Testament Leviticus 11
verse4 the camel because it choose to
could but does not have clo and H is
unclean to you so that's the biggest
unclean animal that was in their midst
verse 42 of that same chapter Leviticus
11 though says whatever has many feet
among all creeping things is an
Abomination to you so they try to not
eat anything
unclean so
fastidious Pharisees when they would
drink their wine would drink it like
this they would literally use their
teeth teeth is a siiv so they wouldn't
dare swallow a
gat they're very careful I wouldn't dare
swallow an unclean thing but if you pick
up on what Jesus is saying you've
strained out the Nets and you swallowed
a
camel and then he says this statement
that I'm going to repeat a few times
before I'm done these you ought to have
done without leaving the other
undone now that means that Jesus taught
whether we like it or not because I've
heard it so many times Jesus never
taught
tithing pay close attention to his
words these you ought to have done
without leaving the other undone now
what part of that said that you don't
need to
tithe he's strict about it but he says
there are things more important that
you're
missing don't Focus just on that and
miss the more important so the lesson
we're going to move quickly hopefully
here it is Jesus taught you ought to
tithe strictly that's what he taught
without neglecting Justice that's what
he said the word neglect means to
abandon Matthew 23:23 again here's what
it says what do you scribes and
Pharisees Hypocrites for you pay tithe
or a tenent a minute minute Anis and
cumin and have neglected the word
neglect means to abandon literally the
weightier matters of the law you abandon
the big stuff like
justice and in Luke's passage Luke 11:42
which is the parallel to this it uses
the word bypass not neglect it says but
woe do you Pharisees for you tithe mint
Rue and all manners of herbs and pass by
or bypass
Justice now Jesus preach Justice he did
in fact he was sent to preach justice so
people who say well we're not all about
Justice we're all about
Justice we should all before the just
thing being done in Matthew 12 and: 18
says he will declare Justice to the
Gentiles or to the Nations so yeah we
believe in Justice as a body of
Believers
amen well that was a big amen Jesus
received
Injustice acts
8:33 his Justice was taken away that's a
quote of Isaiah 53 so he received
Injustice but he preached Justice do you
preach
justice so these you ought to have done
without leaving the other undone what's
the point Jesus taught you ought to be
as strict about your justice as you are
about your
giveing or maybe you should be as strict
about your giving as you are about Bel
in
Justice cuz that's really the message
either
or the second thing he mentions Jesus
taught you ought tithe strictly without
neglecting
Mercy stay with me mercy or compassion
he says in Matthew 23 mentions after
Justice he says and mercy Luke 10:37
just kind of gives you an understanding
what Mercy is in the story of the Good
Samaritan he who showed Mercy on him
was the one that was a good neighbor to
him right and what do he telling him to
do go and do
likewise that's what Mercy is find
somebody worse off than you and does
something good for them helps them out
that's what Mercy is it's also the idea
of goodness Hosea 66 uses it this way I
desire mercy and not sacrifice I want
you to do good things and be kind to
people and not just think all I can
so Jesus warned of this evil lie and
then Jesus observed their judging John 9
veres 1 through3 especially verse 34 it
says neither this man nor his parents
sinned he's been born blind it must be
him he must be going to commit a sin or
committed a sin or or his parents
committed a grave sin because that was
their theology bad things happen to you
you had to be a bad person you did
something bad and he says no no in Luke
13 that's exactly the argument the one
that we quote all the time on except you
repent you still all likewise perish was
that very concept of judging other
people as having been so bad that's one
of those bad things happen to them no
that's not correct so he Ober observed
our judging and what he's trying to say
is that's not very
merciful so the lesson is these you
ought to have done without leaving the
other undone that's the message Jesus
taught you to be as strict about your
mercy as you are about your giving or to
be as strict about your giving as you
are about your mercy number next I can
see y'all enjoying
this all
right Jesus taught you ought to tithe
strictly without neglecting Faith now
Faith or faithfulness same thing in
Matthew 23 goes on to say and faith
steadfastness is another way of in
transla in fact in the old Old Testament
that's primary way steadfastness or
Fidelity habach great great passage of
the Old Testament quoted several times
in the New Testament wonderful statement
in habach 2 and verse4 behold the proud
his soul is not upright in him but the
Jud shall live by class the judge shall
live by faith that's right that's where
it comes from passage over and over
again we quoted that teaches that we're
saved by grace through faith now Jesus
preached the the power of faith in
Matthew 17:20 if you have faith as a
mustard seed you will say to this
mountain move from here to there and it
will move and nothing will be impossible
for you his point is is that faith is
powerful faith can save you it can move
a mountain it can save you and Jesus
proved the power of Faith Matthew 21:19
it's he just cursed the Fig Tree and
immediately the Fig Tree withered so
there's great power in faith but we have
to be people of Faith it's not enough to
give our money and have no faith it's
not enough enough to give our money and
have no mercy it's not enough to give
our money and have no justice within us
these you ought to have done without
leaving the other undone Jesus taught
you ought to be as strict about your
faith as you are your giv you ought to
be as strict about your giving as you
are your faith are you you understand
where he's going with
this number last here Jesus taught you
ought to tithe strictly without
neglecting love now this is strictly in
the parallel passage Luke
11:42 and it's the word agape and it
means good will literally and the love
of God don't neglect or pass by the love
of God now the love of God we're told
what that's supposed to be like Luke
10:27 so he answered and said You shall
love the Lord your God with all your
heart with all your soul with all your
strength with all your mind and your
neighbor as yourself love your neighbor
as yourself to love just love so Jesus
wants
us to love so how does that play out
well he wants us to love our children in
Matthew 19:14 let the little children
come to me and do not forbid them so how
does that play out let me tell you one
way that sometimes it's neglected by
church members and look Deuteronomy back
to the law Deuteronomy 6: 5-8 if you
really love the Lord then the first
thing he says you do is you teach these
things diligently to your children so
yeah you should be teaching them but you
ought to give us an opportunity to try
to teach them as well in Sunday school
that's if you love your children and
Jesus wants us not only to love our
children he wants us to love God and
love one another it's a commandment John
14:15 if you love me keep my
Commandments if you love God you do what
he says that's the law Deuteronomy 11:1
you hear all these references ref es to
the law why am I doing that because most
people don't know the law little less
the New Testament now people have quit
reading it they don't read it anymore
and they don't read the Old Testament
like they read the New Testament the Old
Testament I'm not so sure it's inspired
but the New Testament that's inspired
every word in the whole Bible is
inspired of God every single word these
you ought to have done without leaving
the others undone Jesus taught you ought
to be as strict about your love as you
are about your giving you ought to be as
strict about your giving as you are your
love you picking up on the the premise
here so that's the whole lesson I know
it seemed long because all that
reading these you ought to have done
without leaving the others undone
Justice Mercy Faith love it means that
we're supposed to be strict about
whatever God tells us to
do that's the truth Tru Hosea
7:8 says that Ephraim is a cake unturned
y'all ever seen those uh pizza ovens you
know that's pretty common type of oven
back in the day so if you take a I don't
know mozos they used to make them round
or any kind of cake and you put it in an
oven like that and you don't turn it do
you know what happens it burns it over
there and on this side it's raw not
really ready to eat Ephraim is a cake
unturned to make that a decent cake you
have to turn
it you have to turn it and keep turning
it it's like some people live their life
like maybe if you've got a BAL
unbalanced Tire you ever had an
unbalanced Tire you ever had a car with
all four wheels were unbalanced that's
that's a okay now you can drive a car in
all four wheels be unbalanced some of
the ladies don't know what this is guys
you need to explain to them what that
lead thing is about but so all four
wheels right have those little things on
it right to to help them balance and
what happens if they're not balanced
well they might be fine at a slow speed
but you get up to a certain speed and
one time more than the
other if they're all four out of that
way it can bounce so much that you can
barely keep it in the road I mean it'll
bounce down the road it's it's crazy if
you're unbalanced it's now you can drive
a vehicle like that for quite a
wayte but at some point you're going to
end up on the side of the road it'll
destroy your calipers get you out of the
line that car will not keep running no
doubt you'll end up frustrated and
Stranded
so I don't believe you ought to give a
tent preacher I'm just quoting
Jesus I'm not preaching church
doctrine quoting Jesus he's one
mentioned this not me so don't ever say
again Jesus never taught this it's in
this text we just kind of skirt around
it for some reason well that was before
he died on the cross kind of
stuff
interesting so giving a
tth but then you ignore Justice Mercy
faith and love wouldn't that be silly so
let's say we all gave a t which isn't
true but let's say we all
did but we didn't have Justice Mercy
faith and love that would just be silly
wouldn't it that would be that
unbalanced
Tire right but it's just as silly isn't
it to have Justice Mercy faith and love
and not
give
so are you giving you ever considered a
10 is that not the advice that's coming
from Jesus in this text is that not kind
of the teaching and remember you benefit
mostly from it it isn't really that much
out of your pocket it's kind of like the
government while we irritated to death
with them without them we'd have Anarchy
and we'd all be carrying
guns and some of us would be dead we
need
them we need it all so are you seeking
to be balanced Justice Mercy Faith love
I'm not giving or I'm giving but I ain't
being just or merciful or faithful love
it's kind of silly I'm afraid that's
kind of where we live a missionary uh
was teaching on giving and then after
sermon a couple hours later one of the
guys he was in his church came up he had
a fish he was a fisherman he brought him
a fish he said I know you're a poor man
why are you giving me this fish he says
because you said maybe I should give
about a tenth he says well this is your
fish this is all you caught he said yeah
you take this for the church said I'm
going to go catch the other nine
now similarly I would
say give your Justice Mercy faith and
love
first yeah I would say that
Get Your Heart Right first clean the
inside of the cup
first but when you think that's all your
responsibility is you're not really
listening you're not really
listening there's a lot here to think
on maybe you should read the Old
Testament a little closer it was written
for your learning that through faith and
comfort of the scripture you might have
hope maybe we need to pay more attention
if you're here and you haven't given
your life to the Lord we're always
available to try to help in that process
had three baptism last Sunday we'd be
able to make room for you today if you
want to do that or if you need to come
back to the Lord whatever we can do let
us serve you now while we stand and
while we
sing
