Robert S Arnold uh died in 2003 but he's
u a shape note music publisher which is
wonderful for us because not everybody
is anymore and you may not think this is
important but for part harmony may not
be that important but shape notes are
important and we need to maintain notes
with our singing or we won't be an
aapola group in the
future it won't be possible to maintain
it because you won't know the two
it's essential that we have the notes
and shape notes if we want to have
forart Harmony but he did 26 HS he was a
singer and he was a composer this Robert
S Arnold uh he had a singing school he's
a teacher in the singing School his
cousin might be somebody that you would
know he's a country western singer his
name was Eddie Arnold know the name now
Eddie Arnold uh but now Robert S Arnold
was inducted into the Texas gospel music
Hall of Fame on September the 14th
1985 he is the author of the song no
tears in heaven no tears in heaven no
Sara given all will be glory in that
land there'll be no sadness all will be
gladness when we shall join that happy
band The refrain goes this way no tears
in heaven Fair no tears no tears up
there sorry sorrow and pain will have
flown no tears in heaven Fair no tears
no tears up there no tears in heaven
will be
known this all comes from the concept
that we just read in Revelation 21 which
I don't need to read
again but I think you need to understand
that Revelation 21
1-4 actually has an origin and that
origin isn't just the holy spirit it's
Isaiah 25 Isaiah 25: 89 says this he
will swallow up death forever and the
Lord God will wipe away tears from all
faces the rebuke of his people he will
take away from all the Earth for the
Lord has spoken and it shall be said in
that day behold This Is Our God we have
waited for him and he will save us this
is the Lord we have waited for him we
will be glad and rejoice in his
salvation I'll make quick three points
and I'll be
done tears that day God shall wipe away
all tears from their eyes you may not
realize that but that implies a bodily
Resurrection 1 Corinthians 15:44 says it
is sown a natural body is raised a
spiritual body there's a natural body
and there's a spiritual body now I don't
know exactly what all that means but I
do know that if it's a spiritual body
even if it's a tangible or Caporal body
that means it'll be a body that doesn't
work against us it won't be a fleshly
body one that fights against God it'll
be one that supports God but the point
of 1 Corinthians 15 is clearly we are
bodily raised and we have eyes that can
cry and God will wipe away those tears
eyes that can cry cry is the next point
it says the Lord will this is from
Isaiah the Lord God will wipe away their
tears not from their eyes as Revelation
says but from all faces so you'll have a
face so that's important little concept
and I believe that just exactly it says
have no reason to doubt it some of you
got to go off into Never Never Land to
be happy but I'm not in never Neverland
I just believe it just like it says it
right there 1 John 3: 2 says beloved now
we are children of God and it has not
yet been revealed what we shall be but
we know that when he is revealed we
shall be like him for we shall see him
as he is so that implies to me Jesus has
a face if we have a face it's got to be
wiped away Jesus has a face so it's
beginning to feel a little more normal
isn't it either way there's tears that
day and we have eyes that cry the final
thought though is there's another type
of Tears tears that we may continue to
be able to
have so the song no tears in heaven is
true but maybe it's a bit
overstated because there's another type
of tears and that is what he goes on to
say in Isaiah which is this is our God
we have waited for him I don't know just
even reading that just gets me we have
waited for have we not have we
not we have waited for him and he will
save us this is the Lord that's capital
L capital O capital r capital D we have
waited for
him we will be
glad and rejoice in that day there's
another type of
tear but those tears don't need to be
wiped
away the New Living Translation
translates Jeremiah 31 n tears of joy
will stream down their faces and I will
lead them home with great care they will
walk beside quiet streams on smooth
paths where they will not stumble for I
am Israel's
father that sounds so good to me will
there be Tears in Heaven yes but no
sorrow is given it will be the Blessed
tears because your eyes can cry you have
a face you have tear ducts and your eyes
can cry but you won't be be crying from
sorrow ever
again but you could cry from tears of
joy that don't need to be wiped away
sounds pretty good to me do it you been
to a wedding everybody cries at a
wedding especially the
Father of the
Bride no tears in heaven so I believe
that there are tears there now I had a
great I had three great ants and I'll
I'll end it with this I had three great
ants and great ants because
well they were just old and anyway so
great ants they lived across the road
from our house as I grew up so I grew up
there my grandmother was on the on the
other side of the road as well my great
aunts over there my uncle's over here so
it was at an intersection that was known
dutton's Crossing get figure that out so
we lived out in the country pretty good
ways out in the country and so my aunt
since uh I was the smallest in the
family and the youngest in the family I
was around longer in their later life
than anybody and so it was kind of my
duty to check on everybody every day
especially during the summertime I
checked on everybody every day so I
checked on my great aunts I checked on
my grandmother I checked on my uncle and
his family I checked on them every day
among the task I had to do that was one
of the things I kind of did so I went
and I spent I don't know probably two or
three years worth of time at my great
A's house and they would tell me all
kinds of stories from way back in the
day when they rode mules y'all didn't do
that but they rode mules and they had
wagons and they told me all kinds of
stories well then there were the three
of them there was
frea charity and Bell okay frea that's
her whole name charity was charity L
Parini and Bell was Arbella Rosella but
the oldest was just fra f r m a fra fra
or it might be two e I'm not 100% on
that
she was different and when I say she's
different now they were they were
teachers they were retired teachers
School Ms never married you know and
they taught so guess what my English got
corrected all the time I I about
couldn't say anything that they weren't
correcting my English not that I speak
badly or but I do
so Freema the reason I told you that all
of that is so you get a context of
Freema when primma was a was a teenager
probably about 12 the mules got scared
by something and she was sitting in in
the in the
wagon they got scared by something and I
don't know what it was and it took off
and she couldn't get control and it
bucked her out she hit her head on a
rock she never cried
again she could not cry no tears would
come out since she never cried
she
will but not the kind that we
thought even my
FMA my a femma will cry again tears of
joy I truly believe the greatest thing
is the tears of joy that won't be wiped
away in heaven because you will have a
face you will have eyes you do have tear
ducts you will have all those things or
God couldn't wipe away your tears so you
will wipe away your tears of sorrow but
not the tears of joy they will flow
forever
more Great Moments in worship when we
all lift our voices Millions upon
millions billions and then the angels
and how many of them there might be as
we all lift our voice in one
chorus you won't be able to make it
through Without Tears of Joy the first
song I look forward to seeing Freema
cry
yeah why would you want to miss that if
you're not right with God I want to give
you an opportunity if you'll come while
we stand and while we sing
