now some might insult you and say
something like you're about as useful as
an elephant in a
Minefield that sounds like a big
insult but an elephant you may not know
this an elephant can detect explosives
like mines 10 times better than bomb
siing sniffing
dogs so thus if somebody ever says
you're about as useful as an elephant of
mind they'll understand they're actually
paying you a comp a compliment and that
you would be very
useful you have something that
you can do you have something that God
can use no matter if you think you have
nothing that God can use you have
something that God can use no matter if
you think you have no abilities you have
no real gifts you have no spiritual
power you have something that God can
use no matter how poor you may think you
are and you don't have what others have
I'm telling you even with you the little
you think you have you have something
that God can use no matter if other men
would turn up their nose at whatever
effort you would make uh I assure you
God will not turn up his nose and you
have something that God can use God has
given you something that he can use
that's the story in this text he the
prophet asked the Widow what you got in
your house you've got something that God
can use in this and remember that God
can use the smallest things to do great
things just a few examples without going
too deep and that is God used Moses Rod
it's just a stick but God used Moses Rod
to deliver Israel stick it over the
water water parted things like that not
just the Miracles that he did in Egypt
and God used David's sling to defeat
Goliath I don't know if you know this
but 1st Samuel 17:40 says he had that it
was with him all the time he was a
shepherd He just pulled it out he didn't
go get one he had a sling with him it
was his sling God used a slave girl to
Simply make a suggestion to naamon you
don't think you got anything a slave
girl first second Kings chap 5 and:
three God used that no matter what you
may think God can use what you have and
even a man's cult that was tied up Jesus
asked for it and God used a cult that
nobody had ever sat on before for his
triumphal entry into Jerusalem it may
seem like a small thing whatever you've
got may feel that way but God can use it
and can use it for his glory but you
know there is a thing called false
humility you ever notice that Colossians
chapter 2 and verse 23 talks about a
false
humility false humility sometimes will
say well I have nothing that God can you
oh I got nothing I can't do
nothing that's false humility because
you got to remember you're God's
creation Gideon tried to say something
like that in Judges chapter 6 and verse
15 when he said uh well my clan is the
weakest in manasse and I am the least in
my father's house H and then Jeremiah
tried to do a very similar thing when he
was called to be a prophet to Israel he
said then said I oh Lord Oh Lord behold
I cannot speak for I'm just a you oh
Lord you see what we do and we that's a
false humility because God would not ask
you to do something unless he wanted you
to do something he wants you to do stuff
so let's take a look at what you have
have you ever thought about what you
have that God can use I never made a
list I'm going to give you a list
tonight of things you have not some have
but a list of things you have right now
that God can use okay it just took me a
moment there's seven of them we're going
to look at T tonight but it won't take
that long to get through it but be
assured don't go home saying I don't
have anything that God can use that's a
lie from Satan okay here we go number
one you have a measure of faith that God
can use Romans chap 12 verse three let's
read it for I say through the grace
given to me to everyone who is among you
so don't say this is not to you to
everyone who is among you not to think
of himself more highly than he ought to
think don't go saying you're the best
one in this room that's not appropriate
but to think soberly as God has dealt to
each one a Measure of Faith that's been
given to you you didn't created said why
I made my faith no you didn't God dealt
a Measure of Faith how did he do that
does explained it in the text I'm not
going to explain it here because I know
what the lesson is about but some have a
little faith we know that right some
have little faith in the Bible how you
know you how little is your faith kind
of statement that Jesus makes some have
great faith that's talked about but it
doesn't matter whether you have a little
faith or you have great faith if you
don't use
it you've got faith will you step out
and use it so be assured you have
something that God can use it's called
faith when you say you don't have
anything you've got faith otherwise
you're not one of us
number
two you have a talent of ability that
God can use I don't know what it is
doesn't matter what it is Matthew
25:15 to one the master gave five
talents to another two and to another
one here's the statement to notice to
each how many does that count everyone
that's a part of the story to each
according to his own ability so whatever
you have whatever God has given you is
according to the ability you have but
you have it nobody else has it you have
it your mom and daddy don't have it your
wife doesn't have it your husband
doesn't have it you have it they have
theirs you have it and so maybe you have
physical or intellectual abilities
because this is looks like it's talking
about Earthly things not talking about
spiritual things as much as it's talking
about Earthly abilities but even if you
have Earthly abilities let's say you're
I don't know a mathematician you so why
I could never use that for the cause of
Christ yeah you could I'm not going to
give you a list of things but I could
just think of something you could just
basically tutor for free to help out
some kid at church there always a way
that you can use what God has given you
but sometimes folks don't use their
ability because of lack of Praise if you
can sing and you're a good singer that
often leads to being the song leader
right if you've got a good voice that
often leads to someone being a teacher
or a speaker at church right I have
neither of those but I'm up here but I'm
just saying you could use whatever God
has given you if you would but here's
the thing you got to remember it's God's
Talent not
yours he gave it to you so if somebody
didn't praise you and you're not going
to do it anymore you're wrong God gave
it to you use it so be assured you have
something that God can use number
three you have a gift of spirit that God
can use 1 Corinthians 12: 7 says this
the manifestation of the spirit is given
to some of
you is that what I
said I'm trying to see if y'all looking
up there or just back there asleep hello
okay the manifestation is given to each
one for the profit of all the spirit has
worked in your heart it has worked in
your life this idea that the spirit
doesn't touch us today is not what the
Bible teaches I don't know why people
want to believe that but it's not what
the Bible teaches the spirit's work in
your life there's been a manifestation
there of the spirit in each and every
one of us you have gift been gifted
through the spirit so spiritual gifts
are not for personal glory and they're
not for personal wealth but for the
profit of all the Brethren that's what
he's talking about here but some misuse
their gift and just benefit themselves
with whatever gift they got and I've
seen this for example I've seen guys who
could preach and he spend all their
effort to preach against other preachers
now don't get me wrong I'm not saying
that some things don't deserve to be
exposed but I going tell you if all you
can do is find the bad egg in the basket
you're wasting a lot of time folks and
you're hurting a lot more people than
you're helping this idea that I got to
figure out who the sound guys are and
who the unsound guys are and spend my
life like that that's a waste of a lot
of good energy you ought to be spending
your time preaching the gospel and quit
worrying about it don't be like the guy
who wanted to expose Paul and preach so
he would get run down you need to spend
time doing what but here's the deal you
have the gift of the spirit you need to
be using it so be assured you have
something that God can use don't be
sitting around saying God didn't give me
anything I don't have anything and then
number whatever the next is whatever the
number would be you have a sacrifice of
livelihood that God can use you say I
don't have much that's why we're looking
at this one let's look at this one Luke
21: 1-4 and he looked up and saw the
rich putting their gifts in the treasury
we're not talking about those folks
verse two and he saw saw also a certain
poor Widow putting in two mits that's
like less than a
penny so he said truly I say to you that
this poor Widow has put in more than all
for all these out of their abundance
have put in offerings for God but she
out of her poverty put in all the
livelihood that she had now some folks
it's kind of weird uh uh only have a
little I don't know why it's like that
some have a lot I don't know why it's
like that I think that's true wherever
you go you say well if we were
socialistic it wouldn't be like that I
don't think so I still think there'd be
some folks that have a lot and some
folks that don't have much well if we
were more democratic it wouldn't be like
that no I don't think that's the way to
be I still think some folks would have a
lot and some folks that have a little
that's the way it's always been I
suspected always going to be like that
in this world I don't know why it's like
that so maybe you have a little or you
don't think you have as much as
everybody else here and what that
sometimes lead people to do is well we
need we have a special contribution well
I a't got enough to put in there whether
I put in my few cents it ain't going to
make any difference or not let the big
boys at church put money
in okay this woman didn't think that way
but some say you know it's now Christmas
time right so Christmas time y'all love
Christmas right so what do we do at
Christmas we spend way too much money on
Christmas
amen we spend way too much money on
Christmas
amen amen and don't we buy stuff for
people we don't even like Anyway
amen right and don't we wish we could
keep some of that money that we spend on
gifts for other people
amen how about this one if it really
were the birth of Jesus
and it's my birthday and you spend
something on somebody else you don't
give me something what is funny to me is
we spend money on everything out there
that we shouldn't probably be spending
the money on and people cut their
contributions and don't give to the one
supposedly celebrating the birthday
ain't that kind of weird I just find
that strange but you can make it up to
him so if you can't do it now because
you've already spent too much you make
it up
later I believe you skip my birthday i'
I'd forgive you if you made it up to me
six seven months
later so be assured you have something
that God can use even it's just two
mights amen you have something this idea
I don't have anything well then you're
hungry cuz you ain't got nothing I mean
you your lights must be off at your
house or you don't even have a house you
got nothing you don't have a car outside
do I got nothing to give oh but you do
all right number
next you have a perfume of anointing
that you can use yeah that's John 12
we're talking about Mary verses 3
through 7 we won't read everything here
verse three says Mary took a pound of
very costly oil of Spock nard anointed
the feet of Jesus and the house was
filled with the fragrance of the oil
verse five why was this fragrance not uh
o oil not soul that was Judas obviously
and given to the poor he didn't care
about the poor verse seven but Jesus
said said let her alone now listen to
this you may not pay attention in the
end of this but this is critical CU
Jesus wanted you to hear this Jesus said
let her alone for she has kept this for
the day of my
burial I don't know if you ever paid
attention to that part you see Mary gave
of this world's Goods like 1 John 3:17
says we are to give of this world's
Goods to those people who need but she
gave it here's what she it says she gave
it for she may have not known she gave
it for this reason it doesn't say but
she gave it for a burial when there was
no time to do Jesus right Jesus didn't
you remember they didn't put all the
stuff on him right that that's what they
came to do on uh you know on Sunday
morning they came to do that but the
burial was done so quickly because he
was buried nearly at dark so so he was
put in the in the grave stinking if he
hadn't had this done it have been
bad it would have really been bad
because he he'd been beaten I don't know
if you know this you get beaten even if
you're just being threatened with a
beaten kids you start sweating and so if
you really get a beaten that's some
serious sweating going on blood sweat
tears and the stress of it all remember
that night when he's praying is like
great drops of blood dropping off the
stress of this and when you're really
stressed I don't know if you know this
your breath doesn't smell good your
underarms everything starts smelling bad
and he smelted better than he would have
otherwise so he was kind of ready for a
burial because there wasn't time here's
what I want you to
see some folks don't serve people who
are
suffering they got skills and abilities
to make ease up their suffering but they
don't use them let me give you an
example they don't attend funerals now I
know it used to be Vogue it is no longer
Vogue our people are not going to the
funeral I'm talking to
you you too
busy really you went to church with
somebody for 10 15 20 years they die and
you can't even go to a funeral to show a
little respect to the wife or the
husband
seriously or maybe you want even have
one for your mate as if we don't
care how about serving others and by the
way how about ministering to people who
are grief
struck there are people who have special
ability to listen and ease pain that's
gift they can just look listen and ease
pain write a card and just ease pain
with that are you using it you see you
have something be assured you have
something that God can use but are you
using
it number
next you have a meal of sardines that
God can
use I love sardines personally but not
everybody loves him John 6:9 there's a
lad here who has five barley loaves by
the way these are not you know these are
not that this is little bitty things
that go with sardines kind of like you
kind of cut them open Stick the sardines
in there five barley Loaves and two
small fish so we know these were not big
okay they might have been that but they
were probably more like that two small
fish but what are they among so many you
may have or you may have in your mind
enough for
you but quite honestly maybe you don't I
don't know if that was enough for this
little boy I don't know if he's a little
boy he may have been 16 years old have
you ever tried to feed a 16y
old you can give them everything in the
refrigerator then they'll still drink
ketchup or something I mean you virs so
I'm not sure if this was a little guy or
if this was a guy who could eat you out
of house in home parents amen you know
amen we all know about them and so I
don't know if he would have been
satisfied with five little barley Loaves
and two small
fish but he gave it and he
satisfied a
multitude now I don't expect you to
satisfy a
multitude and I don't know that God's
sitting around saying well you know
brothers so and so they don't they don't
have
much so they could never really have
anybody over to their house to feed
them
really you can't be hospitable for a
meal when's the last time you had
somebody to your house or out to eat for
a meal well well we just don't have
enough put a little more water in the
soup get another piece of
bread buy some
sardines surprise them we gonna eat the
lad's food tonight
you can make banana pudding andite us
all over
but I
remember I remember Lil Benson and y'all
don't know her this is from way back Deb
can tell you whether or I'm telling the
truth or not their
kitchen about here the table there that
was it had a table right here in front
of the
fridge just enough room for liil to sit
right there Li's paralyzed from here
down on one
side she's cooking for us she's
paralyzed been paralyzed on one side for
30
years she's paraly maybe 40 by the what
I'm talking about been paralyzed she'd
get on the phone talk all day long to me
but she was paralyzed her husband was
Bible class teacher never was never was
a preacher never was a deacon never was
an elder raised two
preachers they had this was a little
house it was a great meal but it was
often very simple and we always ate it
about 4:30 in the afternoon that was
supper
okay it was it was great because it
wasn't about the
food it was about being with Hubert and
Lil Benson
good
people be assured you have something
that God can use bring out the sardines
have somebody over amen and if you can't
cook order it in number
next she said to her what shall I do for
you now remember well I'll explain this
a minute she made had more than you
think she did tell me what do you have
in the house so she's got a
house pick up on
that she's a poor Widow right but she
had a house what do you have in the
house other than the couple of kids you
got and she she said your maid servant
has nothing in the house oh but a jar of
oil it's like throwing it in at the
end like this Widow we often do not see
the value of what we have that could be
used isn't that interesting many of you
may have been sitting there what do I
have that God could use I've already
given you now seven things that you
could use believe me that's not the list
the list goes on she reminded Elisha in
this text of the faith and the fervor of
her late husband now this is something
that is revelatory and you should listen
to me right now now cuz I'm going to
tell you something you probably never
heard before according to the CDI the
Zari and the Ravens or the rabinal group
and the historian
Josephus this woman was the Widow of
oadi do you know who I'm talking about
now he was the one who worked in ahab's
Palace and worked for Ahab First Kings
18: 3 and4 tell us something about
obadi what did obadi do obadi hid 100
prophets of the Lord in two
caves why because Jezebel was married to
Ahab and had killed a bunch of the
prophets already so what did he do he
protected them and put them in the caves
but that wasn't the big
thing that wasn't the big thing he did
the big thing he did was
he fed them now I don't know what you
know about preachers but they can eat I
mean they can they especially if they're
real hungry they can eat really good now
here's the deal I don't know what you
know about famines but in the middle of
a famine food prices don't get
cheaper has your food price gone up
about 25% a it so food prices if things
are tough don't get cheaper they get
more expensive Ive now if you had to
feed a 100
people where did he get the
wherewithal as a servant in the king
ahab's thing to feed a hundred people
one
meal one
day what would it cost you to feed a 100
people one day have you thought that one
through he did a hundred people we don't
know how long but let's just do a little
math the Aram which is also Jewish says
that oadi did this and had borrowed the
money to do it from Ahab to feed the
hund he didn't know what he barred it
from but he had barred it to feed those
I guess from his future prey and then he
died before he could pay it back so now
his wife who's a widow is stuck with the
bill and the two
kids are about to be sold so how much
money are we talking about here well
let's just say it like this daily bread
for a 100 profits let's just say they
just get bread CU it's a famine they
don't get anything fancy no steak no
potatoes no green beans you got to have
green beans but daily bread for 100
profits let's just say on our numbers
living right now could you feed a man
bread for $5 a day I don't think so but
let's just go with that cuz they're
hungry and maybe they maybe they were
willing to do without so $5 a day and
let's say that they did it for the whole
three and2 years of the famine that's
1,200 days you know what that is in
today's dollars
$600,000 do you understand why CH the
children are up for
sale
$600,000 to P just to feed about a 100
profits now from 50 BC to 200 ad the
average average yearly salary was 200
shekels the significance of that is
today's dollars for 200 shekels is about
$60,000 a year now I'm going to go
somewhere with that four lers of O olive
oil pure olive oil at that time or about
a gallon was worth about a 100 shekels
now if you do the math that's half of a
year salary the average year salary in
America is right at $60,000 59,000
something so we'll say 60,000 so since
100 shekels is half of a year salary
that's roughly
$30,000 right so a quart of pure olive
oil back then is equivalent not the same
you can't do it that way but is
equivalent in today's thing would be
worth about
$7,500 that's that's not bad that's
that's more than a gallon of gasoline on
a bad day so if only about about a 100
prophets now listen to me I'm going
somewhere if only about a hundred
prophets had maybe an extra
container and were willing to help out
by giving the
container which they should have done
right ought to be willing to do that so
if each of those prophets that were
saved by obadi gave a container that
means this poor Widow suddenly had a
hundred
containers and if you do the math if a
court would fill that
container and she now the miracle is all
kept multiplying don't get me wrong I'm
not talking about that I'm just talking
about the math of the money so if you
take a court and you sell it 100
containers
okay at the price of
$7,500 a container that's 7 thou
$750,000 which remember he owed
$600,000 and remember what the prophet
said take the rest of it and live on
it those numbers are probably
crazy but you begin to understand what
really happened behind the scenes here
don't you and the thing is is that I
think some of those prophets should have
bought the oil from them you saved their
skin maybe they should have bought it
but the miracle is that the oil
multiplied until all the containers have
many there were cuz we don't know how
many there were were filled so that they
could be sold so here's the point I want
you to see this is a poor Widow and all
she's got is a jar of oil and some
people that owed
her do you have anybody that owes you
maybe you have something that God can
use here's the lesson that's it you have
something that God can use whether it's
a Measure of Faith whether it's a talent
or ability or a gift of the spirit or a
sacrifice of some of your livelihood or
a perfume of anointment for somebody
who's going through some terrible thing
or a meal of sardines over at your house
or a jar of
oil like this
Widow God will use what we
have you notice though you got to take
the first step did you notice that God
didn't help her until she volunteered
something like this Widow God will be as
big as you will let him be if you'll
just let him be big how many jars did
she
gather that was her deal that was her
part you got to let him be as big as
he's willing to be how big was he
willing to be as big as she was willing
to believe he would be
like this Widow God Will Save kids from
the devil he'll save your kids are you
listening to me he'll save your kids but
you listen now don't you think you'll
save your kids no matter what you do
he'll save your kids from some terrible
things in this world maybe from drugs
alcohol or the like he'll save your kids
from that if you'll let God use what you
have cuz that's this story and like this
Widow God will take care of you even if
you don't think you will if you'll let
God use what you have there's the truth
that's the
lesson construction crew was uh building
a new road kind of like Bell sches is up
as brand new through a rural area and
because it's a rural area they were
knocking down trees that came to one
tree I don't know what made him see
realize it but he thought there was a
bird's nest up in the tree so he got a
lift he went up there he saw that Not
only was there a birds n up there but
there were baby birds in there that
hadn't learned to fly yet so he
literally came down and marked the tree
don't cut this one down yet he's
kindhearted fell he says don't cut it
down we'll come back in a few weeks
we'll see so several weeks passed he
came back and he got in the lift went up
in the bucket and he looked and sure
enough there were no birds that all left
he was grateful he said so he got his
crew he says okay we can cut the tree
down so he cut the tree down when the
tree fell the The Nest obviously popped
out of the tree and when it popped out
of the tree it just burst in a pieces
you know how that can happen because it
hit really hard and so there's pieces of
the nest laying on the ground and they
go over and somebody happens to look at
it and sees that there's actually some
pieces of paper in the nest and part of
the pieces of paper were actually from a
Sunday school pamphlet and on a scrap of
that piece of paper was found these
words he carth for
you I wonder how many times your tree
wasn't cut
down when it could have
been because he cared for you I wonder
how many times you missed the
construction zone because he is taking
care of you are you at the end of your
rope just know that he cares well how
can you help me get as many vessels as
you can and let God Amaze you with what
he can do because he not only can do
things for you he can do things with
you if you'll let him use you because
here's the truth of the lesson you have
something that God can use
amen amen how about let's say that out
loud together you have something that
God can use why don't you say that to
your neighbor you have something that
God can use you need to say it out loud
just sitting on a Pew you're keeping
your mouth shut and basically you're
just disproving everything I've taught
now your mouth will work let's try it
you have something that God can use you
ought to learn to speak up for the Lord
let's try it one more time you have
something that God can use you need to
believe it if you understand that
concept Maybe be you would understand
that you could be used in the Kingdom
the rest of your life repenting of your
sins confessing the name of Christ and
being baptized you can be a faithful
Christian and you will be used and it
will shock you sometimes what God will
use you and do
