John was an
alcoholic he's struggling with it and he
really wanted to give up alcohol
completely he went to see a preacher to
talk to him about it and they talked for
a long time finally he said to John well
are you baptized John he said uh no he
said well then I'll baptize you and
you'll be a new man and so they went to
the baptistry he plunged him under you
know in the name of the father Son and
the Holy Spirit when he came up he said
to him you're are now a new creature
John there will be no more alcohol in in
your life you will now no longer be
known as John you will be called Joseph
instead you will be a new clean and
healthy man from this point
on well Joseph was pretty pleased with
that he liked it he thought the method
was odd but he was grateful for it and
he felt really good about it and so he
headed home when he got home he went
straight to his fridge opened it up
grabbed a beer went over the sink fill
the sink dipped the beer in water came
up and said you are now a new creature
you're not beer anymore you're now
orange juice and drink
it not everybody's Changed by baptism
but it's still the call of God the
distinctive play of the Churches of
Christ are that we're to be United I
mean it's kind of a restoration Heritage
we have but I think it's the distinctive
ple of all the churches throughout the
world at least it should be we live in a
fallen World State I've talked about
this over and over again I won't belay
it but I I do want to Simply say that
the division that's in the world is both
an enemy and a friend it is an enemy to
the cause of Christ but it is a friend
to those of you who want uh Union in
government if we ever unite in
government in this world in this Fallen
World System you will lose all the
freedoms you have the Tyranny and we
know that from Genesis 11 if you don't
believe that's true take a look at what
God did to prevent One World Government
it is not the best interest of everybody
until we are truly redeemed in every way
and then it'll be the best thing that
could ever happen we got to get there
though and we are called to Unity and we
are called to Unity based upon B AP ISM
uh Jesus prayed for it Paul preached it
we just read his passage in Mark uh 16
verse 16 great passage he that believes
and is baptized will be saved and he
that believeth not shall be condemned it
there gives you three views of a simple
a simple passage how we could get three
views out of it I do not know but these
are the three common views that we see
and they're not just exclusively to this
these groups I put out here but that you
will kind of know it by these groups
this is kind of the way people believe
there are people who believe that when
you're a child you're baptized when
you're baptized because you're born in
sin they believe and so because you're
born in sin and and condemned you must
be baptized so when you're baptized as a
child you're saved at that moment later
in life you will be taught and you will
believe in Jesus that's kind of what is
taught by Catholicism and a few other
groups out there there's another group
that believes that you believe and faith
alone saves and we're going to talk a
little bit about that in just a moment
it's faith alone saves and so at the
moment that you believe in Jesus at that
moment you're saved and then uh you are
later baptized to join a church and so
that's common among the Baptist but it's
also Community Church you will hear a
lot of that kind of thing the text
though says
belief plus baptism equals saved and
that's what you'll hear among
restoration movement kind of churches
like we are and so that seems to be the
force of the text and that's the reason
you hear us focus on that if you're not
familiar with the Churches of Christ and
you hear us talking about this this is
one of the major reasons that we say it
in this order because it's in this order
in this text I didn't write the text but
you believe you're baptized then you're
saved that's what it says and there's
other scripture that seem seems to
suggest that as well now having said
that some say that we are lost because
we believe this that's right we are lost
because we believe in work salvation we
believe in baptism salvation because
it's a work right and therefore we're in
trouble but what if all
churches uh even us believe in Jesus and
no matter what church I think that's
probably true do you know of a a church
that doesn't believe in Jesus now I find
this kind of fascinating because I I
listen to just about everybody out there
I do I listen to just about everybody
out there and I listen carefully to what
they say and so I've heard this taught
that if you believe in Jesus with all
your heart you're saved and once you're
saved you can't lose your salvation you
ever heard that kind of talk and I've
heard that a lot okay let's let's go
with that just a minute I'm going to go
with that I'm going to go that's true
just for a minut stay with me okay I
that's not what I believe but that we're
going to go with it so if that's true
then every church out there who believes
in Jesus was saved you said well well he
didn't believe that he's being saved it
doesn't matter you don't understand if
it's by work salvation you can't be
saved by works so it can't be that well
you got to get it just right if you
don't believe it is right wait minut now
you're back to work salvation so it
can't be that so anybody that ever
believed in Jesus at that moment
according to that theology they're saved
at that moment
that's right now wait just a second but
but now you then you said you needed to
repent and some said that and well that
messed it up and you need to be baptized
wait wait wa if you're saved When You
Believe In Jesus then everybody who
believed in Jesus including us Church of
Christ folks who believe in legalistic
baptism okay then we were saved at that
moment and if you're saved and you can't
lose your salvation then even though we
now legalistically believe that you need
to repent confess and be baptized you
can't lose your
salvation so you're
okay you can't mess it up if they're
right you're okay and you even if
they'll get up and preach oh no you
you're you're legal you can't lose it
because if it's legalism because
legalism can't mess it up because those
are works you can't mess it up if
they're right and so everybody that ever
believed in Jesus is going to heaven
right if they're right on the other hand
if they're not right then you need to
look at this equation that we just
looked at and think about it just a
minute maybe get it in the right order
so that's the thing but here's a good
thing so if let me go down a different
Rabbit Hole so if uh let's take the Jews
in the Old Testament now the Jews in the
Old Testament they believed that they
had to keep the law right but they also
believe from Genesis 3:15 onward that
God was sending a messiah
they knew almost nothing about him right
they believed almost nothing about him
they had no idea that he would be born
in Bethlehem at first CU that was only
prophesied much later they didn't know
hardly anything about him but guess how
they're saved the Jews in the Old
Testament are saved by the same blood
that you're saved by they're saved not
by the blood of bulls and goats they're
saved by the blood of Jesus Christ and
they're saved by wait going back to what
I just preached that I don't actually
believe and that is their Saved By Faith
only right wait a second so literally
they were wrong about what they thought
about the works I'm staying with that
church though that teaches that so not
only that but they didn't even hardly
know what in a world they were believing
in and yet it was their faith in that
that saved them so but wait let me go
down that rabbit hole a little deeper
that means they had an imperfect Faith
even so even an imperfect faith and
something they didn't fully
understand maybe we should quit judging
everybody and what we really ought to do
is just focus on teaching what the Bible
says okay so I know that they had to
live according to that law and if they
didn't live according to that law it
didn't matter what they believed about
the Messiah they weren't going to be
saved and maybe we ought to do the New
Testament the same way and whatever it
says we better do it how about that one
whatever it says we better do it amen
walls whatever it says we better do it
if we say We believe We ought to do it
so if Faith repentance confession and
baptism saves guess what we're okay on
that one too
amen so just do what it says we'll come
back to that idea in a minute let's be
the Bible people who speak uh for the
Bible and say what the Bible says I
think that's a worthy goal don't you
think just just believe what the Bible
says we're going to walk down that
pathway we're just still going to do
some reading I'd encourage you to turn
in your Bibles we're got to do it fast
CU I've got 12 points this morning y'all
didn't want to go play do anything y'all
skip lunch we're
here number one let us be United by the
baptism that is fulfilling all
righteousness Matthew chapter 3 this was
read a moment ago I'll just read part of
it again then Jesus came from to John at
the Jordan to be baptized by him he came
there to be baptized so Jesus believed
in baptism amen amen walls and John
tried to prevent him saying I need to be
baptized by you and you're coming to me
if anybody going to be baptized this
morning you need to be the one baptizing
me because I'm not fit you're fit he
knew who he was verse 15 but Jesus
answered and said to him listen to this
permit it to be so now for thus it is
fitting for us that means me to fulfill
all righteousness and then he allowed
him so let us be United by the baptism
that is fulfilling all righteousness you
claim to want to fulfill the
righteousness of God and refuse baptism
then you're lying to yourself number
next let us be United by the baptism
that is authorized by Heaven let's read
the passage Matthew 21: 23- 27 now when
he came into the temple the chief priest
and the El the people confronted him
that is Jesus as he was teaching and
said by what Authority are you doing
these things and who gave you this
Authority who do you think you are verse
24 but Jesus answered and said to them I
also will ask you one thing which if you
tell me I likewise will tell you by what
Authority I do these things that seemed
reasonable the baptism of John where was
it from from heaven or from Men the
baptism of John and reasoned among
themselves saying if we say from Heaven
he will say to us why then did you not
believe him in other words why weren't
you baptized verse 26 but if we say from
Men We Fear the multitude for all count
John as a prophet so they answered Jesus
and said we do not know sounds like a
politician to me doesn't it to you and
he said to them neither will I tell you
by what Authority I do these things
you're going to be dishonest with me
I'll be just quiet and not tell you
anything so bottom line is is the
baptism that should unite us is the
baptism that is authorized by heaven so
if you question baptism who are you
really questioning number three let us
be United by the baptism that is
remitting of sins it is always by the
way this was true of John's baptism it
is true of our baptism it is true of
baptism in general it is true Mark 1: 4
and 5 says John came baptizing in the
wilderness and preaching a baptism of
repentance why for the remission of sins
in other words not repentance alone not
baptism of alone but baptism of
repentance was for the remission of sin
and it's that way today acts 2: 38 then
all the land of Judea and those from
Jerusalem went out to him and were all
all baptized by him in the Jordan
confessing their sins remitting of sins
did you believe your baptism was for the
remitting of sins it was but it must be
accompanied with repentance that's the
idea behind it number four let us be
United by the baptism that is preached
to everyone this baptism that we believe
in that we say you should have done if
you have not done it is to everyone Mark
16:15 begins this way and he said to
them go into all the world and preach
the gospel the good news to every
creature he who believes in his baptized
what does baptism have to do with the
gospel it is part of the Gospel it
represents the death burial and
resurrection of Jesus Christ he who
believes and is baptized will be saved
don't need to recover that again we just
covered that but it was to be preached
to everyone I'm preaching it to you
right now if you have not been baptized
for the remission of sins hear the word
of the Lord it is to you number next let
us be United by the baptism that is God
God's Justified will listen to those
words God's Justified will you don't
agree with baptism you're arguing with
God who Justified it and it is his will
listen to what it says in Luke 7: 29 and
when all the people heard him even even
the tax collectors which of course
nobody likes even to this day even the
tax
collectors Justified God have having
been baptized so even the tax collectors
could be saved amen amen wal having been
baptized with the baptism of John but
the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected
the will of God for themselves not
having been baptized by him it was from
heaven and it was God's Justified will
if you reject baptism this day you
understand you are rejecting God's
justif ified will he's at every right to
require it number six let us be United
by the baptism that is requiring much
water some people want to be baptized in
the spirit and that's all they want to
do but let me tell you something there's
more to it than that in John 3: 22 and
23 it says this after these things Jesus
and his disciples came into the land of
Judea and there he remained with them
and baptized
all right now John also was baptizing
and remember that that's Jesus baptized
now he personally didn't baptize parent
all of his disciples did all the
baptizing we read that in John 4: 1 and
two but verse 23 says we're still in
John chapter 3 now John also was
baptizing in Anan near Salem because
there was much water there and they came
and were baptized and so not only do you
baptize people you have to baptize them
where there's much water why is that
because Colossians 1:2 says it's a
burial Romans 6 and verse4 says it's a
burial you can't bury somebody in a
Sprinkle so if you have are willing to
hear the word of the Lord there is no
sprinkling baptism in all the New
Testament but you are expected to be
immersed in water where there is much
water number next number seven let us be
United by the baptism that is an
unforbidden command so if you're looking
for somebody to say something like you
be baptized to La you know all the fish
in the sea therefore you don't have to
do it you need to be careful about
listening to such things as that because
this is a command that is not forbidden
ever anywhere acts chap 10: 47 and 48
says can anyone can anyone that's a good
question can anyone and the answer
obviously is automatic you the answer
answer is no can anyone forbid water
that these should not be baptized
whoever see the Holy Spirit just as we
have so he says oh no I've been baptized
in the spirit I don't need to be no no
no no listen to what he says verse 48
and he commanded them to be baptized he
commanded them to be baptized in the
name of the Lord then they asked him to
stay for a few more days so here's the
thing if you want to obey the gospel
which is what we've all got to do unless
you want the flaming fire that comes
from the presence of the Lord second
Thessalonians CH 1:8 if you want to obey
the Lord then you need to be baptized
and quit making excuses and saying you
don't have to do it number next number
eight let us be United by the baptism
that is into Christ death listen to
Romans chapter 6: 3 to 8 and what I
really want you to pay attention to
while we're paying attention to this I
want you to pay attention to the
personal pronouns I know in our society
everybody's got personal pronouns so
listen to the personal pronouns and this
text okay and Romans 6:3 says or do you
not know that as many of us wait a
second who's writing this that's Paul
the Apostle as many as of us as were
baptized into Christ you mean Paul the
Apostle was baptized into Christ he said
he was as many of us as we baptized into
Christ Jesus were baptized into his
death so literally they're baptized in
he was baptized into Christ where by the
way salvation is verse four therefore we
Paul again we were buried with him
through baptism into death that means
all that's gone that should uh that just
as Christ was raised from the dead by
the glory of the father even so we also
should walk in newness of life for if we
have been United together in the
likeness of his death certainly we also
shall be in the likeness of his
resurrection knowing that our old man
was crucified with him and that the body
of sin might be done away with that we
should no longer be slaves of sin for he
who has died has been freed from sin now
if we died with Christ we believe that
we shall also live with him I'm thinking
Paul's claiming salvation in Christ and
being baptized into his death that means
s Paul died Paul is the Living God and
that he is accounting himself as having
been changed Forever at the point of
baptism if you don't believe that go
back and read what happened to him in
Acts chapter 9 and verse 19 or Acts
22:16 when he was told by Anan why do
you chry arise and be baptized and wash
away your sins if you're sitting here
today and you've never been baptized
what are you waiting on arise and be
baptized wash away your sins calling on
the name of the Lord that's what he said
to do number nine
let us be United by the baptism that is
in Christ name what does it mean in
Christ's name well let's follow through
it 1 Corinthians chap 1: 13-15
says is Christ divided was Paul
crucified for you so he's talking about
Christ or were you baptized in the name
of Paul what's does it mean says I
wouldn't baptized the name of Paul I was
baptized the name of Christ none of us
were divided we're supposed to be in in
Christ so that's what we just talked
about right so you're baptized in
Christ's name is Christ divided was Paul
crucified for you or were you baptized
in the name of Paul I thank God that I
baptized none of you except Christmas
and gas now some people won't try to use
that and try to say see Paul really
didn't want to baptize anybody that's
not what he's saying and that's
dishonest to use this text to teach that
verse 15 let anyone let any lest anyone
should say that I baptize in my name
that's the focus of his statement he
says I'm not trying to be the guy that
you look at and say oh Paul baptized me
but he's not suggesting at all that he
didn't go about teaching people and
baptizing people and teaching people to
be baptized that would be dishonest
because you're to be baptized in
Christ's name so not only are you to be
baptized make sure it's in Christ's name
or by his authority number 10 let us be
United by the baptism that is putting on
Christ Galatians 3:27 says into Christ
but it also says something else which
may be even more significant it says for
as many of you as were baptized into
Christ which we just talked about a
minute ago as many as us as we're
baptized into Christ have put on Christ
people ought to see Christ when they see
us after the point of baptism they ought
to see Christ when they see us that's
not what's happening something went
wrong some something went short
circuited something didn't go the way it
was supposed to go but in the baptism of
the Bible there's supposed to be a
fellow walking around a woman walking
around who now people see Christ when
they see them because they've been the
person that literally clothe themselves
with Christ number 11 let us be United
by the baptism that is the one baptism
that's right so we're supposed to be
United guess what everything I've just
said is the one one baptism are you
following it we all are supposed to be
baptized this way we're all supposed to
basically understand these things
Ephesians chapter four says this
therefore there is one body and one
Spirit these are the great ones just as
we were called and one hope of your
colleague we all want to go to heaven
verse five one Lord that's one Lord
Jesus Christ One Faith one thing that
we're supposed to believe one baptism
why would that be in that list if it's
not that important obviously it is that
important one God and Father of all who
is above all and through all and in you
all so I can mock things all day long I
can take parts of the Bible or parts of
things that I don't particularly care
for and I just make fun of it and that
way it sounds like I don't have to do it
maybe I don't need to think about it
listen to me very carefully there's no
part of the Bible you need to be dealing
with it like that amen there's no part
of the Bible you need to look at it
casually everything is from God if it's
from Heaven as we pointed out earlier I
think we need to treat it as kind of
special like amen and there's one and we
all ought to be baptized that way number
last let us be United by the baptism
that is forgiving all trespasses we
talked about remitting all sins listen
the way it says in Colossians 2: 12 and
13 we are buried with him in baptism in
which you also were raised with him
through faith in the working of God so
how did it all work Faith there's no
point in being baptized you don't have
faith so anybody says well I thought you
said you you were saved by faith alone
well there is the sense which obviously
we are saved by faith alone otherwise
what would be the point of being
baptized what would be the point of
repenting if you didn't believe right so
it is the faith that makes you saved
there's no question about that but let
me go back buried with him in baptism
which you also were raised with him
through faith in the working of God you
believe God was doing this who raised
him from the dead and you being dead in
your trespasses I mean you we were
Sinners Beyond reach almost and the
uncircumcision of your flesh he has made
alive together with him having forgiven
you all trespasses what did that happen
when you were buried with him in baptism
that's what it
says so that's a lot I'm not going to
repeat all that are you
glad that's quite a
lot if and listen to this if perfect
faith
and perfect
repentance and perfect
confession and a perfect
baptism and a perfect
faithfulness is
required with no
exceptions we're all
damned none of us have a guarantee
we're
son because we're all imperfect in every
one of
us that doesn't mean we shouldn't try to
do it
right this is not a
cafeteria where I pick and choose what I
want to
do the story is told about the baptism
of King Angus by St Patrick in the
middle of the fifth
century somewhere during the
baptism
Patrick who had a cane so he's baptizing
the guy and he's got a cane right well
his Cane had a sharp point on the end of
it I don't know why but he had a sharp
point on the end of it so they're in
there and they're Barefoot right and
Patrick's leaning on his Cane while he's
trying to baptize the king and so he
does he says the words and he baptizes
the king comes back up and he looks down
the water and sees blood everywhere he's
like oh my and he realizes he stabbed
the king's foot with his sharp pointed
King and it just virtually went through
his foot and he's bleeding like crazy
down in the water and so this is a king
he says oh King oh King I'm so sorry I'm
so sorry I didn't mean to stab your foot
while I was about baptizing you why did
you suffer in silence why didn't you say
something and the King said well I
thought it was part of the
ritual cuz he thought he didn't have a
choice where did you start thinking you
had
one that this is a
cafeteria you get to pick and choose
what you
can do and by you're picking it's okay
because you picked it it's okay doesn't
matter what the Bible said I picked
that it's
fine I don't want to get my hair wet so
don't get baptized in front of
people I don't want anybody seeing me
baptized cuz that is that's
weird I don't want to confess Jesus in
public that would be embarrassing what
if I said it wrong
I want to
choose I want to
choose I decide for myself I decide for
what I believe I decide what the Bible
says I decide who told you you got to
decide anything except if you're going
to do it or
not these are commands of God if we're
going to be United
we got to learn the whole world's got to
learn thy will be
done in all things
