there was this uh real legalistic father
probably none of you have known a father
like this he was uh pretty
Hardline uh he made the rules and you
obeyed them that's all there was to it
he was kind of a Hellfire and dnation
kind of guy kept his kids scared to
death not only of hell and Damnation but
scared to death of him and so he's that
kind of parent that's way he' always
parented and now he's old he's gotten
old all of his kids are grown and he is
now needing surgery there's something
seriously wrong and they put him in a
hospital he's in his hospital room with
his Bay of Windows all across the end of
his room just a bunch of light coming in
the room and he's got serious surgery
ahead of him and uh so he goes under
when he wakes up he's back in his room
and all the curtains are pulled and it's
dark and so he he says to one of his
grown children sitting there next to him
why have you got all the curtains
drawn and he said well well Dad um
there's a fire across the way just next
door and we didn't want you to wake up
and think that the surgery had
failed Paul David trip is the one that's
I'm basing a lot of this uh study on
he's got a book out if you want to read
it parenting uh 14 gospel principles
that can radically change your family uh
I want to read a few quotes from him
particularly from the chapter that this
lesson comes from your children need
God's law but you cannot ask the law to
do what only Grace can
accomplish I am convinced that without
knowing it thousands and thousands of
well-meaning Christian parents are
asking the law to do in the lives of
their children what but only the
powerful grace of God can accomplish if
rules and regulations had the power to
change the heart and life of your child
rescuing your child from himself and
giving him a heart of submission and
Faith Jesus would have never needed to
come your children need God's law they
need the grace of wisdom that God's law
alone cannot give God's law is good for
your children it provides them with the
grace of
conviction parents we all need to have
and everything I do I do to point my
children to the presence and Promises of
God's grace so it is time to give up
trying to do in the hearts and the lives
of your children what only God can do
you need to model the gospel of grace to
your children I think those are good
quotes
why is that
true well because there are really just
two serious and really very serious
weaknesses to U the
law one is
dependency believing and trusting and
depending on the law to save us the law
by itself cannot save us Romans 8:3 says
it straight up for what the law could
not do in that it was weak through the
flesh God did by sending his own son in
the likeness of sinful Flesh on account
of sin he condemns sin in the flesh so
the law could not stop us from doing
evil it would have been good if it
could but it couldn't so law dependency
becomes a problem it cannot resolve the
need that we have it cannot save us and
law rep replacement is the other the
flip side of that Colossians chapter 22
through 23 is a great text it basically
teaches us that replacing God's law for
our
laws uh laws driven by our fallen nature
so we're going to come up with the rules
so God's law couldn't do it they could
just showing them the Bible your kids
are not going to live for the Lord but
boy if I have the good rules then I'll
save them but the problem is I have a
fallen nature I have a craving for
power I have a craving for
affirmation I have a craving for
control I have a craving for
success I have a craving for
reputation I have a craving for treating
others even my own kids as servants who
would exist just for me to make my life
more comfortable
so if I make a bunch of rules that's the
problem I'm liable to make those kinds
of rules that just serve
me we all tend to be legalistic parents
if we're not careful don't think that
this is just Rex dutton's problem that
he has a problem with being
legalistic I think we all lean into it
if we're not
careful in the story of The Prodigal
Luke
15 it is good to recognize
most of you know this that the father in
that story that's the metaphor of God
the father right what you might not have
thought about is you know there's two
brothers in that
story I've always wondered if maybe God
was also teaching another
lesson yeah there were two brothers
famous brothers in the Bible that might
have had these kind of things Jacob and
Esau but there were two set sets of
Brothers in the 12 apostles Peter and
Andrew and James and John and I wonder
if there's some messages that we didn't
get that they are getting just kind of
underneath what was going on between
them let's see if there are three
messages I think there are three
messages in this text for us as we're
trying to be gospel parents that we're
not supposed to just be uh law parents
but there are law principles that I want
us to walk through number
one law parents can have prodigal
children who may reject
us that's a hard
truth but it is an important truth
because it's in this text I'm going to
read it I'd encourage you to turn to
these passages we're going to be in uh
Luke 15 pretty much the whole thing so
if you could open your Bible to Luke 15
I'm going to read verses
11-9 right
now then he said this verse 11 a certain
man had two
sons and the younger of them said to his
father father give me the portion of
goods that falls to me so he divided to
them his livelihood and that's
interesting he didn't divide to him he
divided to them so he separated
everything out verse 13 and not many day
which by the way means that the older
one got a double portion so the younger
one only got like one/
third uh if they followed the Old
Testament law verse 13 and not many days
after the younger son gathered all
together uh journeyed to a far country
and there wasted his positions with
prodical living it almost feels to me
like when I read that he didn't really
care about those things a it kind of a
because he wasted them I don't know
verse 14
but when he had spent all there arose a
severe famine in that land and he began
to be in
want then he went and joined himself to
a citizen of that country and he sent
him into his fields to feed swine pig
farmer verse 16 and he would gladly have
filled his stomach with the pods that
the swine at and no one gave him
anything I don't know if those pods had
any seeds on them but if they didn't
that did much to eat verse 17 but when
he came to himself he said how many of
my fathers hired servants by the way
something I want to drop in here Jesus
only ever talks about hired servants he
never talks about the other kind of
slavery I don't know if you've ever
picked up on that but he talks about
hired servants how many of my father's
hired servants have bread enough and Des
spare and I perish with Hunger I will
arise and go to my father and will say
to him father I have sinned against
heaven and before you so he recognizes
the way he' behaved was inappropriate he
knew he wrong verse 19 and I'm no longer
worthy to be called your son who said he
is worthy to be called his son before
that I'm no longer worthy to be called
your son make me like one of your hired
servants now that's very interesting to
me because it was like he couldn't wait
for his father to die that would happen
eventually his father would die and he
would get his portion but he couldn't
wait for that he wanted his inheritance
right now I don't know that the guy was
actually greedy or
Covetous I don't think that's what's
going on
here I think he was just rejecting his
father he didn't want to have to do what
his father said anymore and the only way
he could get away from his father is if
he had the money to get away from his
father
that's quite a
statement so that's a real problem I I
just want you to realize it that law
parents can have prodigal children who
may reject us I look I've been a law
parent you will do what I say right I've
been that I promise
you uh and it's proud of it actually the
uh but no matter how you do your
parenting they can still reject you I
don't care how good you've been I don't
care if you think you did it just
perfect
right don't they can still reject you I
can just say I ain't going to do I don't
like you I'll don't be around
you kind of like what happened here but
it does seem that the parent in this
text and I'm sorry I'm not trying to be
critical of God who is the image of the
father but it does seem like he had a
pretty stiff situation and you'll see
that in a minute and so maybe that was
it just couldn't stand the legalistic
aspects of the Father the second
truth so law parents can have prideful
children who may resent us so this is
the flip side so you can you can end up
with a prodigal kid he's going to waste
everything go off and waste his life get
into all kinds of no good get into all
kinds of sin and blow all the money and
be somebody that's not responsible that
can't even keep the lights on at his
house and just absolutely irresponsible
you can have a child like that but this
one's different the other kid's not like
that the kid doesn't leave and he's got
a double portion remember so he's got
just about everything that's left right
so this is the part he's always going to
have let's look at verse 25
through3 now the older son so he is the
oldest that's why he gets the double
portion if he goes according to the Old
Testament law now he his older son was
in the field where he always was by the
way you pick up on that the other one
apparently wasn't but the older son was
in the field he's a worker and as he
came and Drew near to the house so this
is late in the evening it sounds like he
heard music and dancing H so he called
one of the servants and asked what these
things meant what's going on
what's all this noise verse 27 and he
said to him your brother has come and
because he has received him safe and
sound your father has killed the fatted
cat and that brother's going yeah all
right verse
28 but he was angry and he would not go
in I'm not going in
there I almost think they didn't like
each other what do you think didn't even
like his
brother therefore his father came came
out servant obviously went and told him
their father his father came out of
where they were having the party and
pleaded with him so he answered and said
to his father Lo these many years I have
been serving
you what in the world is he talking
about he's talking about how his father
had had him doing all the work and he
was doing it he was the older one so he
did more work than the other one did Lo
these many years I've been serving you
I've never transgressed your commandment
not one time can you find that I didn't
do what you told me to do if he said fix
that fence I fix that
fence he said fix that wagon I fix that
wagon he said plow that field I plowed
that field you know I did everything
you've ever told me to do he's upset at
this point a he never transgress your
commandment but the very thought of
using the word
commandment you ever talk to your
parents says you're commandment
what a comment hey so basically his
parents
law I never transgress your commandment
at any time and yet you never gave me a
young goat that I might make marry with
my
friends there was no whipped cream on
this
cake this was not one of those birthday
parties every year
you got a birthday he
didn't had friends over he
didn't did something fun he didn't you
think you had it hard look at what this
guy
endured I never even got a goat I didn't
ask for a fatted lamb I never got a
goat a stinky goat by the way if if you
don't clean a goat just right boy I'll
tell you don't want to eat it but if you
clean it just right it's great it's
really good
food that I might make marry with my
friends i' I'd had a friend over I got a
friend I'd have had him
over verse 30 but as
soon he's loading up for Bear hair but
as soon as this son of yours it almost
makes me think that there had been two
moms
I don't know but the way he says it
ain't
polite but as soon as this son of yours
came who has devoured your livelihood
you worked hard for all that and he's
blown it all he look what he says too
with harlots we didn't get that earlier
that didn't what it says earlier but I
don't know if he went to harlots or not
but in this part he's accusing of that I
bet they'd had conversations what you
guess two boys having conversations I
bet there had been a
conversation devoured your livelihood
with harlots you killed the fatted calf
for
him now I hate to tell you this but law
parents listen now you can have arrogant
kids if you're a goody to shoes family
you can have goody to shoes
kids who think they're better than
anybody else's kids at the church
building in fact they think they're
better than any kids at the school
building are you hearing what's
happening in this
text but it's worse not only do they
think they're better than other kids
they're better than their mom and dad
this kid thinks he's better than his
dad if you're not careful if you raise
your kid just on legalism your kid can
end up being grown and can't stand you
remember the first kid couldn't stand
his father and now we got the one that
stayed and he couldn't stand his father
are you picking up this legalism kind of
way of life doesn't really
truly work the way we think it will well
I got him to do what I he went to church
with me he did what was right yeah well
I when they get where they can go where
they want to go what they going to
do that's a different story isn't it but
as soon as this son of yours came who
has devoured your living with harlots
you killed the fatted caam so you might
raise a kid who cannot stand you who
hated all your Commandments saw you as
unkind saw you as ignoring their needs
their friends their
situation and saw you even your own
brother and sister is not someone I even
want to be around this son of yours and
when you got a family that you don't
want to be around your father you don't
want to be around your brother you don't
want to be around your mother you don't
want to be around your sister when
you've got a family what went wrong you
went to church and nobody in that family
wants to be around each
other something went
wrong that's second lesson third lesson
law parents can have parental children
who may redeem us now that may not sound
like it makes any sense for a minute but
hang with me our parents may have been
raised
legalistically likely almost all of
those of us who are older are you
listening almost almost all of those of
us who are older were probably raised by
more legalistic kind of tough
parents so you may be out there thinking
yeah I had it
rough it's okay maybe a lot of people in
the room had it rough okay now here's
the thing so our parents may have been
raised under
legalism so that means we were likely
raised under
legalism but something can
happen even in a legalistic thing
something can happen you can actually
learn of God's grace even in that situ
even in that
situation and show that Grace to your
children
by which they will be
saved that can happen and let me walk
you through the background now of this
entire text okay here we're going to
walk through it and I'd like you to turn
to each of these and say with me Luke
15:1 and two says this then all the tax
collectors and senders Drew near to him
to hear him now isn't that interesting
who is it that's listening to Jesus on
this story
the guys that nobody
liked the guys that were looked down on
the guys raised by a bunch of legalistic
parents who rejected
it they were all raised under the
law and they all rejected
it that's who we're talking about here
in verse two and the Pharisees and
scribes
complained so they raised under that
they didn't reject it they're the elder
brother and they're like saying this man
receives Sinners and eats with them I
can't believe how in the world can you
be the grace of Jesus is seen in
receiving both
Sinners and arrogant
kids what I'm trying to tell you is it
do matter what your background is Jesus
save
you so if you raised by legalistic
parents Jesus can save you if you were
raised by liberal parents Jesus can save
you if you ain't got any relationship
with your father your mother your
brother or your sister Jesus can save
you that's in the story Jesus Christ is
extended he extends it and he receives
Sinners if he receives Sinners he
certainly receives the Pharisees and the
scribes to even hear their comment the
second thing parental Redeeming Grace
also goes it doesn't just receive but it
goes It goes out in the Ws to find
people that's what we talk about in this
first story to these people once they
start complaining listen to this so this
lesson is designed to deal with this
attitude back and forth between the ones
that have been rejecting the will of God
and living like a devil and the ones who
thought that they were Saints and look
down on everybody that's who this is for
this these three stories are for
them which means it's for you because
you're one of the two right now you're
one of those two right now that's one of
the two you were ready like that in Luke
15 beginning verse three so he spoke
this Parable to them saying what man of
you having a 100 sheep if he loses one
of them does not leave the 99 in the
wilderness and go after he goes to find
it goes after that one which is lost and
listen this is the most critical part of
that sentence until he finds it he
doesn't give up even if he finds it dead
he's going to find it he's going to find
that sheep verse
and when he had found it he lays it on
his shoulder so he's not dead rejoicing
he's thrilled I don't you look at the
Spirit of this not only is he determined
but he is ecstatic to find it and when
he comes home he calls together his
friends and neighbors and says them
Rejoice with me for I found my sheep
which was lost sounds a lot like that
father doesn't it I say to you that
likewise there will be more joy in
heaven over one sinner who repents and
over 9 and9 just persons who need no
repentance what is being said here is
the grace of Jesus not only receives but
the grace of Jesus goes what do you mean
it goes Jesus was in heaven and he went
to Earth to save us that's how what
Grace does it goes the distance whatever
that distance is
required and then parental Redeeming
Grace
searches it searches and in this text it
searches in the dirt that's where we're
usually found when when we're in the
middle of sin it says in verses 8 and 10
remember this is for the tax collectors
and Sinners and the Pharisees who are
judging them verse 8 says or what woman
having 10 silver coins if she loses one
coin does not light a lamp sweep the
house and search carefully until she
finds it now I've been taught once upon
a time and I never could find if it's
true or not but that was a common thing
that if a woman was married she'd have
10 coins on a on like a band on her head
that was one of her decorations are
often given at a wedding and search
carefully until she finds it so again
she searched carefully until she finds
it and when she had found it she calls
her friends and neighbors together
saying Rejoice with me for I found the
peace which I lost likewise I say to you
there is joy in the presence of the
angels of God over the sinner who
repents what I want you to see is where
he found it swept the house found it in
the dirt that's where she found it
that's just like he found that lost
sheep in the wild
now the grace of Jesus is expressed here
not only did Jesus come to the Earth but
according to Luke 19:10 it says he came
to seek and to save the lost so he
searched he searched for
you yeah he
did search for
me and parental Redeeming Grace sees it
sees what's going on
you may think that God doesn't see what
you've
done he sees what's going on in fact
sees way
off he runs he hugs he clothes he feeds
he rejoices over let's read it verse 20
and he rose and came to his father but
when he was still a great way off his
father saw him Genesis 3:15 was the
great way
off all the way back to Genesis 3 15
down through time the Lord saw our
need thousands of years before he saw it
way
off his father saw him and had
compassion and ran and fell on his neck
and kissed him and the son said to him
father I have sinned against heaven and
in your side and no longer worthy to be
called your son I don't think the kid
even smell good but he's still hugging
and kissing on him verse 22 but the
father says to his servants bring out
the best robe best robe on this stinking
kit and put it on him put a ring on his
hand that identifies him as my son and
sandals on his feet so he didn't even
have shoes and bring the fatted calf
here and kill it let us eat and be
married for this my son was dead and is
alive again he was lost and is found and
they began to be
marry again a great way off there's the
grace but parental Redeeming Grace also
not only receives people that aren't
where they ought to be goes after people
who are where they shouldn't be searches
in places that you wouldn't expect to
find people but they're there sees
what's going on in their life but it
also affirms parental Redeeming Grace
challenges us with this
idea because the truth is is that
we all
struggle we all struggle as brothers and
sisters to be the people we're supposed
to
be it says in verses 31-
32 and he said to him son you are always
with me do you know how important that
is to realize some of you are sitting
here don't believe you're going to
heaven right
now you don't believe
it you don't actually believe in
grace you're said here saying well I
don't think I'd got to haveen that
you're the person I'm talking about if
you're not
certain that God would save you
tonight why because you don't believe
God's with you right
now son you're always with me but I
thought he had a bad attitude you know I
love this these people a lot of people
teach this over again and says oh the
elder brother he's the one that was
really lost no he
wasn't well no he had a bad attitude
yeah he had a bad attitude well then he
was lost where you getting that you just
made that up I've heard that made up so
many times sermons I wish y'all quit
making stuff up it isn't in the text
there's nothing about him being
lost
nothing well the elder brother he's just
as bad off as young well I don't care
doesn't matter he wasn't lost not in the
text he knew exactly where he was out
there in that field he knew he was
that's what the story says here's what
you need to get you you are always with
me but he has a bad attitude you are
always with me folks if people with bad
attitude is going to hell every one of
us is going to
hell if that's it well he's arrogant so
are
you you know how I know cuz you didn't
even like me saying
that son you are always with me and all
that I have is yours wa down everything
God's got it's not mine yeah it is
everything Belongs to
You Christ belongs to God and all that
Christ has belongs to
us the whole universe is ours that's
what it says that's what the Bible
teaches sorry everything that exists is
ours need to read Corinthians a little
closer it was right that she we should
make marry and be glad for your brother
was dead and is alive again and was lost
and is found you said yeah but his
attitude was bad at the end of this you
don't know what his attitude's like he's
just been lectured that and taught
better here's what I know is Jesus grace
extended to the Jews
still to the ones he started talking to
at the first of this
text Jesus grace extended to the scribes
and the Pharisees it extended to the
Sadducees it extended to the ones that
were really Wicked the Sinners that are
in the textt he had not given up on any
of them we do we give up on people just
like that we give up on our kids I mean
we won't disown them we'll still give up
on them oh I don't it ain't going to
work I'm just I'm done with it I'm done
with Johnny I ain't talking to him
anymore I'm not having anything to do
with Billy anymore y'all need to just
calm down a little bit if that's your
attitude because the truth is is that
the law parents can have prodigal
children who may reject us but you don't
know the story The Boy came
home and law parents can have prideful
children who may resent us but you
remember the old boy stayed
home and law parents have have parental
children who may redeem us it's true
that even legalistic parents can pull
this off because it's not you that does
it it's the grace of God that does it
it's God's work that your kids turn out
okay and quit taking credit for it amen
quit taking credit for it it was a Grace
to God that any of your kids turned out
halfway decent now that's the
truth if God's plan is truly to make his
grace known by sending us as parents of
Grace to give Grace to our children who
need his grace then we are also called
to preach his grace and live and model
his grace before our children every day
possible the man in this story that lost
a lamb the woman who lost a coin the
father who lost a son or two for some of
you of Grace in our story here's the
thing in all of those stories that are
true they never gave up it's the most
important part of this
story it is the most important part of
the story Grace never declares
defeat
never not in any of these stories Grace
always believes I will find my sheep I
will search until I find my sheep I am
going to look until I find my
sheep Grace always believes I will find
my coin it's got to be here I'm looking
for my coin I will search until I find
my
coin and great Grace always believes I
will find my son I'm standing out here
I'm looking down that road every
day and one day my son is coming down
that
road and this son is always with me and
he may resent me he may not like me but
that son is with
me do you ever do you feel it he never
gave up on
you do you feel
it oh I
do he should
have but he never gave up on
me he had plenty of
reason other people in my life did
too June
19th it's been on my mind lately
the conditions on a slav
ship the middle
passage was horrific in the
day many enslaved people died they died
from things you wouldn't expect
disease
malnutrition
Suffocation if you got hundreds of
people stacked the way they would stack
them in a
boat and there's no air flowing through
and it's 5° as you cross the
Equator the ships were often overcrowded
with hundreds of people packed together
in living quarters that were often less
than 5T by 5T that's it you couldn't
stand
up no
headro little to no ventilation because
ventilation you're down below the water
level often
anyway not enough space or sanitation so
the air was foul
these conditions made enslave people
susceptible to all kinds of diseases but
denter small poox and fever were just
some of them epidemics were common the
whole ship nearly everybody had on the
ship would
die separated from their families their
homelands their languages and Shackled
together that alone is enough to drive
you to
Insanity not knowing what in the world
these people are even talking about what
they're even saying cuz they don't speak
the language you speak you're in this
closeness this filth this fear of the
condition that drove people literally
they became mad people went
mad and many attempted suicide some
succeeded and in the middle of
that the crews of the slave ships and
the captains were often very
cruel and you think well how could they
be more
cruel sometimes they tortured people
almost just for
fun they murdered enslave people just
pop off to me and you're
dead and they did
it Robert rinberg
Jr uh from Michigan
said in a small
Cemetery of a parish churchyard in hly
England stands a granite tombstone
with this
inscription John
Newton Clerk or preacher clerk once an
Infidel and
libertine means he drank like a
SI once an Infidel and libertine a
servant of slavers in
Africa was by the rich mercy of our Lord
and Savior Jesus Christ
preserved restored
pardoned and appointed to preach the
faith he had long labored to
destroy and you may not remember his
name but all of us know the song he
wrote as a testimony of his life Amazing
Grace is it
possible that Grace can forgive such
things you better better hope for your
sake that it
can you better
hope hope and pray that it does and
believe it does why should I believe
that because God doesn't give
up Grace doesn't give
up and you better hope that's true about
your
children your children they have laws
you gave them laws they know the Lord's
laws law parents are what most of us
have and
legal do what I
say don't give up on
them he never gave up on
us we're not what we should
be we saw that in the scripture read a
while
ago he never gives up
never gives
up that's the parent to
be I want to be the parent who never
gives
up you say one when your kids's dead for
example I'd still pray for
them well they were living in sin I
would still pray for
them not going to give up will you join
me in there
I'm not giving up no matter what no
matter what no matter what the preacher
says no matter what the preacher says no
matter what the elders say no matter
what the elders say I'm not giving up on
my kids I'm not giving up on my family
I'm not giving up on people that I love
I'm not ever giving up I'm going to look
down that road and hope there's a way
amen that they could come home somehow
some
way that's not just just being a law
parent try to be a Grace parent if
you're here tonight you haven't been
living the way you should though
obviously God calls you to by his grace
to repent get your life straight don't
be like that prodigal and don't be like
that mean old brother if you need to
come come while we stand and while we
sing
