move this back up just a little bit um
good evening everyone I am obviously uh
not Rex Dutton I'm a little shorter than
he
is um but seriously guys keep him in
your prayers uh the family is uh under
the weather um he got back home again
this afternoon is just struggling a
little bit
um and
so he's asked me to to speak the elders
said
okay um not sure if that's a good thing
or not but we'll see uh you know Bethany
and I were heading home uh this
afternoon after service this morning we
went to lunch uh we were sitting there
we
were thinking about how much we had to
get done today we were thinking about uh
I'm working on some taxes we got a bunch
of embroidery to get done and I said man
you know what we may not be able to make
service this
evening and about 10 minutes after that
I get a text from Deb saying please call
me 5 minutes later I am preaching this
evening and uh so here we are God uh had
another plan uh than for me to skip
church this evening uh 2 Timothy 4 and:
2 tells us to preach the word to be
ready in season and out of season and
I've been trying to put that to heart
lately
um I've been slowly just kind of
taking little Concepts or little ideas
and I just have a little note in my
iPhone I say oh man you know that's a
really cool that would be a cool sermon
uh and I just plug it in there and then
you know when I have more time if I get
called on to speak again I've got
something to go to um I think anybody
here would have appreciated a little bit
more than uh two or three hours to to go
to that um but I ask that you guys bear
with me I'm going to do do the best we
can this is something I've been uh
you know thinking about a little bit um
I'm glad this is for a Sunday evening
crowd I got something at the end that I
I I just kind of want to challenge us I
want to look at a uh just a perspective
that that that we may have and so
tonight uh we're going to be focusing on
Luke chapter 15 I don't know cool they
turned that off because I am not going
to preach what re Rex was going to
preach uh but we're going to focus on
Luke chapter 15 and there's three
parables in Luke 15 and and I think
between sermons Bible classes
devotionals think you've heard all three
of these Parables more than enough um or
not more than enough but you've just
heard them a lot uh I want to take a
look at those this evening and like I
said I want to look at it with a little
bit of another
perspective
um I've uh so this is the third time
coming up here
and um the first time I had a paper
print out and I was like I didn't really
like that that was kind of hard flipping
through the pages uh the second time I
brought an iPad and I didn't like that
either because I kept swiping up and
down so now I've got my laptop so I'm
going to see see how the laptop goes
this evening but let's uh before we get
started let's open with a
prayer father we come to you now just
thanking you so much for this day Lord
we thank you um for all of the saints
that are gathered together here father
we thank you on a Sunday with uh two
football games that they've chosen to
come uh to worship to serve you father
to worship you to sing praises to your
name father we ask that tonight
uh everything that be said be in
accordance with your will father and
that you find everything that we do here
this evening pleasing to you father as
we look at these Parables and and The
Lost Ones father we just ask uh that you
help us
see uh the meaning behind these Parables
father we ask all these in Christ's name
amen all right so I'm going to focus
tonight
mostly on uh the parable of the prodical
son right I'm going to focus a little
bit some some Bibles you know call it
the parable of the lost son
um but I really think to understand that
parable I really think you have to look
at the two Parables before it and so if
you go back to Luke
15 um let's go to Luke chapter 15 let's
go to uh verse four if you have your
Bibles and you want to follow along that
would be
great and I want to read first talking
about the parable of the lost
sheep
and so let's look at Luke 15 uh Luke
15:4 and and and the pair of L lost
sheep says when it what man of you
having a hundred sheep if he loses one
of them does not leave the 99 in the
wilderness and go after the one which is
lost until he finds it and when he has
found it he lays it on his shoulders
rejoicing and when he comes home he go
he calls together his friends and
neighbors saying to them Rejoice with me
for I have found my sheep which was lost
and and we've read this we've heard this
many
times um you know it's
pretty uh pretty common that that lost
sheep is
us that that Shepherd is God or is Jesus
and it's warm and it's comforting
because he has aund
sheep but he still goes and he searches
for that
one if I asked each of us in here if you
had
$100 and you lost
$1 would you spend a ton of time
searching for that $
one I'd I mean I'm a big money guy I
struggle with money and I can't have
enough of it but if I lose $1 I I'm even
out of a hundred I'm probably not going
to spend too much time looking for it
man that really stinks but guess what I
still got still got $99 I can buy I can
buy dinner tonight
right you know but Jesus is saying that
that that
one is worth seeking
out not just worth seeking out but worth
seeking out so much that he
leaves the
99 and I think that's really
important the second Parable uh in
chapter 15 is the parable of the lost
coin and then picking up in verse 8 it
says or what woman having 10 silver
coins if she loses one coin does not
light a lamp sweep the house and search
carefully until she finds it and when
she has found it she calls her friends
and re and neighbors together saying
Rejoice with me for I have the found the
peace which I lost and again in this
Parable that coin is again referring you
know to us and the way that woman goes
out and searches for that coin is an
example of how
Jesus searches for us and how God is
searching for us and for our
soul and to put it into
perspective let's again go back to money
if you had
$10 and you lost
one how much time would you spend
looking for it then it's a little bit
more right one out of 10 as opposed to
one out of 100 I might go check the car
see if it dropped out of the billfold
and down between the seats right I might
look in the girl's piggy bank to see if
maybe they took it and stuffed it
away but it wouldn't it wouldn't keep me
up all night right because I still have
$9 we can well we used to be able to get
a McDonald's meal for that but not
anymore but you know that $1 wouldn't
keep me up at
night and so taking those two
Parables and and and look at the next
parable of the lost son or the prodal
son I think helps you know put it into
perspective I'm going to go ahead and
read it I hope that's okay with
you um because I want I want to make
sure it's a pretty
common you know topic that's preached on
but I want to make sure everyone here is
familiar with what what we're looking at
and in verse 11 the Bible says then he
said a certain man had two
sons and the younger of them said to his
father father give me the portion of
goods that falls to me so he divided to
them his livelihood and not many days
after the younger son gathered all
together journeyed to a far country and
there wasted his possessions with
prodigal
living but when he had spent all there
arose a severe famine in that land and
he began to be in want then he went and
joined himself to a citizen of that
country and he sent sent him into his
fields to feed
swine and he would gladly have filled
his stomach with the pods that swine ate
or that the swine ate and no one gave
him anything but when he came to himself
he said how many of my father's hired
servants have breed enough and to spare
and I perish with Hunger I will arise
and go to my father and will say to him
father I have sinned against heaven and
before you and I am no longer longer
worthy to be called your son make me
like one of your hired servants and he
arose and came to his father but when he
was still a great way off his father saw
him and had compassion and ran and fell
on his neck and kissed him and the son
said to him father I have sinned against
heaven and in your sight and am no
longer worthy to be called your son but
the father said to his servants bring
out the best robe and put it on him and
put a ring on his hand and sandals on
his feet and bring the fatted calf here
and kill it and let us eat and be merry
for this my son was dead and is alive
again he was lost and is found and they
began to be
Mary and again I've said it a couple
times already but this is another
Parable that that you hear rather
frequently right either from a sermon or
a Bible class
um or maybe even a devotional that you
read a daily devotional you know that
that you read and and I think it's
awesome and it's so easy to relate
ourselves to that lost
son right it's so easy to relate relate
ourselves to the one that is straight
off to the one who took everything and
ran because we've all done it Romans 3
and: 23 says that for all have sinned
and fall short of the glory of God and
so at some point or another we have all
turned our back and we have all walked
away even in even in little things and
sometimes in larger
things and so the first the first two
Parables tell us how God searches for
us regardless of our
significance it was 1% of the Sheep
right it was it was
10% of the
coins and the third Parable tells us how
God
rejoices when we come
home and there's there's songs about
this right one of mine um I'm going to
read it to you there's one little point
that I disagree with um but one of the
songs it's Corey Asberry it's a it's a
Christian singer and I'm going to try
not to sing it uh um Bethany told me I
was not allowed to do that uh but I'm
going to read the lyrics to you and try
not to pick up the tune uh but it says
oh the overwhelming
NeverEnding Reckless Love of
God it chases me down it fights till I'm
found it leaves the
99 I couldn't earn it I don't deserve it
still you give yourself away oh the
overwhelming NeverEnding Reckless Love
of
God there's no Shadow you won't light up
Mountain you won't climb up coming after
me there's no wall you won't kick down
lie you won't tear down coming after me
and so the point that I struggle with is
considering God's love is reckless but
you get the point of what she's trying
to say there right he's he's willing to
do anything to come after you and to
find you where you are and bring him
bring you back
home the rest of that though is
absolutely true and
so as Sinners you know we are all
sinners I mean how comforting is is it
to
know that God is always searching for us
and to know that he is always waiting to
celebrate us when we
return and that is 100% something that
should be preached it's 100% something
that should be
celebrated but here we get to the point
of the different perspective that I
wanted to look
at I think these Parables might have
another
meaning you know we always talk about
the lost son but Luke 15 doesn't stop at
verse
24 I've rarely heard a sermon or a Bible
class or a devotional on what I want to
call the other
brother think about it have you have
have you heard many if any I can't
remember I'm sure I'm going to get a
text on the way home from Rex saying on
June 16th 2019 I preached about that why
were you not paying
attention
but I had a one-year-old at that time or
actually two month- old anyways I want
to go back up to Luke 15 and I want to
look at verse one and verse two and the
Bible says then all the tax collectors
and the Sinners Drew near to him to hear
him and the Pharisees and the scribes
complained saying this man receives
Sinners and eats with them so he spoke
this Parable to them saying and so I
think not only is Jesus here talking to
the Sinners and the tax collectors Jesus
is also talking to the scribes and the
Pharisees and he tells them you know you
have a hundred sheep 99 of them are
great they do exactly what you say
exactly what you want you don't have to
worry about them said but you scribes
and Pharisees you'd still go get the
one so what is the fuss about with me
talking to these Sinners and to these to
these Tax Collectors when those are my
one right and Jesus summarizes the
attitude their attitudes in Luke uh 15:
25-32 and so I want to read that and
again this is talking about the other
brother but I believe this is the
attitude of these scribes and these
Pharisees seeing these Sinners and these
Tax Collectors coming to Christ says now
his older son was in the field and as he
came and Drew near to the house he heard
music and dancing so he called one of
the servants and asked what these things
meant and he said to him your brother
has come and because he has received him
safe and sound your father has killed
the fatted calf but he was angry and
would not go in therefore his father
came out and pleaded with him so he
answered and said to his father Lo these
many years I have been serving you I
never transgressed your commandment at
any time and yet you never gave me a
young goat that I may make marry with my
friends but as soon as a son of yours
came who has devoured your livelihood
with Harlot you killed the fatted calf
for him and he said to him son you are
always with me and all that I have is
yours it was right that we should be we
should make Mary and be glad for your
brother was dead and is alive again and
was
lost and is
found and so my simple question to you
guys
tonight and this is why I'm kind of glad
I'm I'm I'm preaching this to a to to
the Sunday night crowd right
my simple question tonight is how many
times are we the other
brother how many times financially can
you sit there and can you say Lord I
have served you
Faithfully why do they get the
promotion and I'm still getting
overlooked and I can't get the job that
I've been applying
to how many times you sit there Lord I
do so much work at
church I cut cut the
grass I spray for bugs I pass trays
every time I'm needed why do they get
the new car and I'm still driving the
one that I'm lucky didn't break down on
the way to church
tonight you know from a physical
perspective you know you could say Lord
I serve you so
much you know why why are they in
perfect health why are they in great
health and here I am struggling with my
illness or my disease
you know spiritually sometimes it can
look like You know despite our service
and our prayer and our
lives can sometimes can look like they
have all the
attention and God isn't answering your
prayers and I've been there I don't know
about you guys but I've been there I
struggle with that even
today
and what I'm trying to do and the reason
why I wanted to talk about this tonight
is because I don't I don't have the
answer per
se but I know it
starts with shifting our
perspective I know it
starts with
rejoicing with the angels and rejoicing
with that person that's been blessed
when they receive their
blessing I know it
starts with knowing and understanding
that God is
faithful and in his time what we're
asking for will
come and so this has been a really short
lesson I I pray that it's just spark of
thought for you to consider as you go
throughout life and as you go throughout
your daily life and just think
on you know which brother am I
being have I strayed off has God blessed
me when I
returned or am I sitting here just
contemplating why I'm working so hard
when I see others get the things that I
don't
and so I'll turn it over to Luke I hope
he has some extra songs because I'm
pretty sure Rex uh would have at least
gone another three
minutes but I do want to bring put it
out there for anyone if you're are if
you are one of those lost sheep tonight
and you're looking to come back just
know that God is waiting there's a
reason you're here tonight if you have
that
heart God is praying that you will come
forward that you'll repent of your sins
that you'll confess the name of Christ
and that you'll put him on in
baptism and so if you want to take that
chance please come please come while we
stand and while we
sing
