you know I think we even like to make
jokes about the way that we tend to
think
badly uh Dwight told me not to tell you
this my best friend thinks I'm a know-
it all I told her I already knew
that he said don't tell that and then he
said why did the lady put lipstick on
her
forehead she was trying to make up her
mind I thought they were pretty
the lack of character sorry dght he said
don't do it don't do it re don't do it I
saw them don't do
it thanks a lot Sean Sean says he was
right the the lack of character and the
lack of
respect is rooted ultimately in bad
thinking so I'd like to if you've got
your Bibles turn with me we're going to
do a little bit of reading tonight just
a little bit so if you can turn to
Romans chapter 1
I going to read beginning at verse
16 through 25 but you don't have to
stand for
this I thought that was humorous anyway
Romans 1 beginning verse 16 for I am not
ashamed of the gospel of Christ for it
is the power of God to Salvation for
everyone who believes for the Jew first
and also the Greek now I'm on verse 17
if you're looking for me Romans 1:1 17
for in it is the for in it the
righteousness of God is revealed from
Faith to Faith as it is written the just
shall live by faith for the wrath of God
is revealed from Heaven against all
ungodliness and unrighteousness of men
who suppress the truth in
unrighteousness because what may be
known of God is Manifest in them for God
has shown it to them for since the
creation of the world his invisible
attributes are clearly seen being
understood by the things that are made
even his eternal power and godhead so
that they are without excuse because
although they knew God they did not
glorify him as God nor were thankful but
became futile in their thoughts and
their foolish heart was darkened this is
the part of the section that you really
need to pay attention to because this is
what happens to us there's a shift in
our thinking they did not glorify him as
God nor were thankful but became futile
in their thoughts and their foolish
Hearts were darkened professing to be
wise they became fools and changed the
glory of The Incorruptible God into an
image made like corruptible man and
birds and four-footed animals and
creeping things therefore God also gave
them up to uncleanness in the lust of
their hearts to dishonor their bodies
among themselves who exchanged the truth
of God for the lie and worshiped and
served the creature rather than the
Creator who is blessed forever
amen so the lack of character and the
lack of respect if you really pay
attention to the
underlying is bad
thinking bad thinking is seen when a
child say ignores a parent and maybe the
parent could use some help this simple I
mean just look this if the mom or the
dad dad is doing a lot of work and the
child is there and the dad doesn't ask
the mom doesn't ask but the child
doesn't even offer there's a
problem and so bad thinking is SE when a
child ignores a parent or a sibling even
their brother or their sister who's
doing something that needs to be done
and they make no effort whatsoever to
help or they ignore their chores in
general and and bad thinking on the
parents part would be not to give your
children chores but they ignore their
chores when they might keep playing
their Xbox or whatever even being fully
aware that now their mother is gathering
up all the trash in the house or
whatever that's bad thinking which means
that will lead to bad
character James 4:1 17 says he who knows
to do good and does not do it to him it
is sin so it's all about your
thinking knowing it but not doing it is
when character goes bad but it's more
than that John 1317 says if you know
these things blessed are you if you do
them so you know what you need to do but
you must do it it's critical second
Peter 2:21 says it would have been
better for them not to have known the
way of righteousness than having known
it to turn from the holy commandment
delivered to them so literally it's not
just knowing it it's the way you think
about it you can have information in
your head but if you think badly you
will do
badly Ephesians 4:1 17-31 32 uh
basically talks a lot about this subject
it shows us the bad thinking is at the
cause of many of our problems and our
children's problems not just our
children but us same thing uh and it
leads to a lack of character on our part
and a lack of respect so we're just
going to walk through those there not a
lot of them we'll talk more about that
as we go and uh let's see if we can do
that number
one the lack of character is caused by
futile thinking it says in EP Ephesians
4:17 which we by the way we looked at
that same concept back in Romans but
here we go Ephesians 4 verse 17 this I
say therefore and testify in the Lord
that you should no longer walk as the
rest of the Gentiles walk in the
futility of their
mind when you are not thinking
clearly it's fule
thoughts and feal thoughts are what
leads you to foolish
behavior and darkened way of thinking
I'm just telling you you as parents our
number one duty is to guide their
minds it it's more important that they
think right than that they do right but
they will not do right if they don't
think right we have to guide their
that's the reason church is so important
it's not because every time you come
here you know
the preaching's great sometimes Keegan
preaches and so it's not that it's it's
just the fact that you need that input
you need the input from the
scriptures some people what we've
already read tonight will be more
scriptures than some will read all
week they won't read it this week so you
need that you need the input of a Bible
class you need the input of other
Brethren who are thinking straight in
these
conversations we have around the
building don't ever underestimate the
power and the importance of those
conversations those little encouraging
words you say we have baptisms up here
and one of the best things we do is not
the circle that's a great thing it's not
the song that's a great thing it's not
the prayer that's a great thing the best
thing we do is when we go up and give
them a hug and encourage them with just
a little short word because
encouragement is that powerful good
thinking but feudal thinking useless
thinking is what will destroy your
children's character more than that
verse 18 goes on to
say that the lack of character is caused
by darkened thinking it says goes on to
say Ephesians 4 having their
understanding darkened that's a parallel
if you notice that Romans
8:20 and here in Romans 1 verse 21 also
we see the futile thinking and then
darkening the heart very parallel this
is like three times this kind of thing
is said so you get fule in your thinking
foolish thinking no it's feudal it's
useless thoughts thinking about nothing
important and then and even wrongheaded
thinking which is really at the root of
this which is rebellion against God
thinking you're so smart smart when
you're not really that's a big part of
that but then your thinking gets darker
you say well what do you mean thinking
gets darker I don't have to explain that
every one of you gotten dark in your
thoughts before every one of us go dark
sometimes every one of us can turn to
the dark and start thinking negative and
more dark and more dark so children can
do that too and children I mean you know
I don't have to go into this but you
know that children even have a problem
with being so depressed sometimes they
need to be on medication sometimes they
have Suicidal Thoughts you know this is
true and you know that alcohol by the
way alcohol is the great
depressant right if you want to really
go down the dark hole drink alcohol to
make yourself feel better that's the
dumbest idea anybody ever had I'm going
to make myself better by drinking a a
depressant that really makes a lot of
sense doesn't it so that's what that is
so you you go down this rabbit hole and
you get darker with
it children if you're going to have
character and we want you to have
character we want you to be people of
Great Character You' got to avoid this
dark type of thinking and feudal
thinking the third thing that's
mentioned in this text is the lack of
character is caused by ignorant thinking
ignorance it goes on to say having their
understanding darkened being alienated
from from the life of God because this
is why because the ignorance that is in
them none of us think right all the time
but if you're exposed to God enough
you're you're going to recognize what
I'm fixed to say is
true you're thinking about doing
something you shouldn't and a verse Pops
in your mind or something that was
taught will pop in your mind and all of
a sudden you like
m i shouldn't be doing that I shouldn't
be doing
that yeah and that's caus because you're
not ignorant our children mustn't be
ignorant and the look it's not about 2
plus two it's not about where uh the
country is on the map although that
would be helpful I would like everybody
here to know that there's 50 states I
would like everybody to know that there
there's about 90 countries in the world
it would be great if you knew the names
of them where all they were located you
could put them on a map but that's not
important let me tell you what's
important is Matthew Mark Luke John acts
letter to the Romans 1 and 2 Corinthians
Galatians Ephesians Philippians
Colossians 1 and 2 Thessalon
yeah and knowing what's in
them yeah that would your kids don't
need to be ignorant of the things that
really matter which really will guide
their thinking and then the next thing
is the lack of characters caused by
blind thinking which is very similar but
it's not exactly the same thing having
their understanding darkened being
alienated from the life of God because
the ignorance that is in them why is the
ignorance in them because of the
blindness of their heart so these two
things feed into each other so when you
don't know something you're blind let
let's be real honest our world is not as
bad a place as we think it's just blind
it doesn't know it's absolutely can't
see it's to me taking taking a survey of
blind people is like the dumbest thing
in the world we want to find out what
you ought to do let's all the blind
people what you ought to y'all know the
story about the the men that were
describing the elephant I mean yeah you
got four or five men describing an
elephant neither one of them knew what
an elephant looked like it's blindness
you can't tell and so blindness is in
the world I'm sorry but blindness is in
your children unless they overcome their
ignorance they don't see things
straight that's why you getting
arguments with them parents they don't
see things they think they do that's a
sign of blindness when you think you're
smarter than your parent and you're 5
years old you're as blind as
bat I mean you really let's be honest
honest I mean and and you're you're not
trying to bring them up they have to
learn some they have to see some stuff
and they haven't seen what you've seen
they don't know it's like today I'll be
honest with you this generation seems to
not have any idea how dangerous
communism is y'all notice that it's like
they don't know it's almost like they've
never heard of Stalin or popot or any of
these guys that killed off so many
people they it's like they don't know
that stuff I'm like where they been I
mean do you not know what the Soviet
Union was like I mean do you not know I
me I it's just that blindness it's like
not only are they blind some of their
teachers obviously must be blind
blindness will destroy character the
next thing number five the lack of
character is caused by callous thinking
callous listen to what he says in verse
19 who being past feeling
wow I got a callous right here I'm proud
of
it preachers don't have calluses okay so
I got one I can show it to you it's
right there so callous I can stick a
needle in that you know I remember when
I was a kid y'all remember doing this
you boys y'all remember doing this
taking your needles and stick them in
your hands you remember doing any of
that we' stick them all in our hands and
in a little chips of our fingers y'all
never did that y'all just crazy but
anyway so we weren't Crazy in Alabama we
stuck needles in oursel but it's it's
past feeling I don't feel
that right I don't feel
it but when your brain is that way and
you don't feel the things that matter
you never even feel shame when you ought
to feel shame in fact our culture now
believes shame is a
problem let you know what a problem is
is when you can't feel
shame if you can't blush there's a
problem if you can't go I'm sorry you if
you can't do that there's a problem you
need to know what it is to be ashamed of
yourself amen because anybody that's
right thinking has been ashamed to
themsel amen we have experienced shame
and it's not nice callous thinking
number next this would be VI the lack of
character is caused by sensual thinking
that's right sensual for those of you
who don't like that word sexual thinking
listen to verse 19 it goes on to say who
being past feeling have given themselves
over to
lewdness young
people I got it all you adults just turn
off your hear AG for a minute
we all want you to have
sex yes absolutely there is not anybody
in here we don't want to have sex just
not now and not with any o thing that's
you're thinking we're against the
subject we don't listen to this we love
the
subject but we don't think it ought to
be talked about all the time and in
church we really don't like talking
about it amen in fact most of you old
people now are saying was he doing so I
mean literally don't talk about it
because we think it's
special not casual not common and not
something to brag about that you've
done
no we think in marriage it's
probably one of the greatest gifts that
God gives to us other than eating which
is probably a little higher on the level
so only just if you're a man it's right
there if it's a woman so anyway
so
loudness sensual
thinking it'll mess your character up if
you think about it too
much it really will lastly
the lack of character is caused by
greedy thinking it goes on to say who
being past feelings having given
themselves over
dudeness to work all uncleanness with
greediness Can't Get
Enough Can't Get Enough will destroy us
all on any
subject if you can't get enough whatever
we're talking about will destroy
you doesn't matter what it
is you need to learn how to get enough
and then stop on whatever we're talking
about doesn't matter what it is
greediness of anything can ruin your
life being selfish self-centered is part
of that but greediness is just I can't
be full on that subject whatever it is I
want more I want more I want more I want
more I want more he'll make an alcoholic
a drug addict out of you it'll make you
all about money it'll destroy your
relationships it'll kill everything in
the world this is a character killer and
it's the way we think and if you listen
to everything I've said all of this is
about the way we think it's not about
what you do it's about how you think
what you think is what you will do
that's why you must control what you
think bad thinking so here's the simple
survey of this basically U bad character
lack of character is caused by feudal
Thinking by darkened Dark Thinking by
ignorant Thinking by blind Thinking by
being callous in your thoughts and the
way you think about other people about
being sensual always about sexual
matters and about being greedy if this
bad thinking is left unchecked or
untaught or
uncorrected your children and you by the
way adults
will have a bad character and they will
become your children will become
Liars they will be angry they will be
wrathful they will have the devil in
their life they will be lazy they will
be
unforgiving they will be corrupt in
their language they will say foul words
regularly they will be bitter in their
attitude they will speak evil of each
each other they will be malicious and
they will be hard-hearted they will be
unforgiving and they will be Antichrist
they won't want much of this church
stuff all right now where did I get that
the rest of the passage Ephesians
chapter 4 says all of that beginning in
verse 25 therefore putting away lying
Let each one of you speak truth with his
neighbor for we are me members of one
another be angry and do not sin and do
not let the sun go down on your wrath
nor give place to the devil don't leave
a space for him let him who stole steal
no longer but rather let him labor
working with his hands what is good that
he may have something to give to him who
has need let no corrupt word proceed out
of your mouth but what is good for
necessary edification that it may impart
Grace to to the hearers and do not
grieve the holy spirit of God by whom
you were sealed for the day of
redemption if you've been baptized young
people and you ignore what I'm saying
you're grieving the spirit of God but
anyway he goes on to say verse 31 let
all bitterness wrath anger clamor and
evil speaking be put away from you with
all malice all of those are result of
bad thinking verse 32 and be kind to one
another tend hearted forgiving one
another just as God in Christ forgave
you bad thinking leads to bad
character thoughts listen now this is
this is coming from someone who had a
psychotic
event brain
issues and
had
years of bad
thinking I had to learn the hard way you
can't say
Lord fix my
thinking Lord make me think the right
things
no you have to control your
thoughts you said but I
can't you can't if you do it the way
most people do it let me explain the way
that will never
work thoughts cannot be
controlled by negative
thinking you can't stop thinking about
something by deciding I'm not going to
think about
it that doesn't work there's no such
thing as that you can't do it no one can
oh I'm just not going to think about
that anymore no you can't do that I'll
give you an example let's just give you
three seconds here I'm going to use the
word and then I'm going to ask you to
not think about it for just three
seconds pink elephants okay you got 3
seconds everyone in here thought about
it you the word was in your head you
can't get it out of your head it was
already there you can't do that so how
in the world do you control your
thinking the only way you can control
negative thinking is by dominating it
with positive thoughts that's it you
replace it with something else and it
has to be
positive it has to be positive it has to
be encouraging it has to be something
that will make you better you can
literally change the way you are and
change your character but you don't
change it by saying I'm never going to
think about that again nobody can do
that you're just making a lie to
yourself what you do is you fill the Gap
you got to fill it with something
otherwise there'll be seven demons that
come in later and fill up the empty
place where it's
SWAT you have to fill it up with
something now you decide what you fill
it up with but I'm telling you the only
thing that's worthy of filling it up
with is something positive and good and
good will always dominate
evil good a good thought will beat back
an evil thought every time God is more
powerful than the devil goodness is more
powerful than wickedness that's not a
Mel that's a real thing so don't pray
Lord change my thinking you change your
thinking you decide I'm going to think
positively and how am I going to do that
I'm going to look at the positive things
ought to be thinking about and that's
what I'm going to think about Victor
Frankl who was an Austrian neurologist
and a psychologist and a philosopher he
died in
1997 born in 1905 he was a holocaust
Survivor here's what he said you don't
have to believe me here's what he said
he lived through the Holocaust he was a
Jew here's what he
said we who lived in the concentration
camps can remember the men who walked
through the Huts comforting
others giving
away their last piece of
bread they may have been few in
number but they offered sufficient
proof that everything can be taken from
a man but one
thing the last of the human freedoms to
choose one's attitude in any given set
of circumstances
to choose One's Own Way oh
yeah you can choose to think
good and if you want to be a person of
character young people you got to think
good and parents you have to help your
children think good
things the good news is is that Jesus
can and does change
Hearts the good news is he can and does
change
thoughts and
mindsets we can easily teach the mind of
Christ and you can have the mind of
Christ and the mind of Christ is easier
caught than it is taught
parents the mind of Christ Christ I'm
saying it again is easier
caught than it is
taught if you parents have the mind of
Christ they will hear your
words they will see your
attitude you will tell them of your
thoughts and they will
think that's good
and they'll adopt
it his
thinking does not require a hardell
approach you don't have to beat this
into your
children John
1232 and I this is Jesus speaking and I
if I am lifted up from the
earth will draw all people to myself
parents if you will Elevate Jesus Christ
in your
home he'll draw
them their thinking will
change and character will be what you'll
have your children will be people of
character that will be able to marry and
maintain a relationship will be able to
raise children
and guide them a
properly so come to Christ today because
Christ is the one drawing you not me the
people came forward this morning they
came forward because Christ was tugging
them we weren't doing
it Christ saves he Chang his Minds if
you're here tonight your mind needs to
be changed you've been listening to it
and you decided that you want to change
your mind you can but you got to fill it
with good
