I mentioned before that there are people
who study the Bible kind of like
butterflies and it looks beautiful but
it really is only for their benefit
makes a pretty show but I encourage you
to be more like bees uh they gather
sweetness not just for themselves unlike
butterflies they look beautiful the bees
aren't as pretty but they gather for
themselves but then they make honey
which is kind of a sticky business but
it isn't just for them it blesses
and blesses again and blessed us all the
ABCs of faith that we're studying today
were on the Believers and it's Loosely
bled upon the book that they study like
I said over there it is the study that
we are trying to give to uh the kids at
FCA and we' like for them to fill them
out so that they could get a scholarship
from us but it's more about their souls
we're looking at and the reason it's in
the easy to read version which isn't a
great version of the Bible don't don't
think that we chose that because it's
one of the better versions we chose it
because it's the easiest to read and
it's also the one they use in friends
speak and we're trying to parallel with
them it's a tool and we inv invite you
to use it as a tool uh if you ever need
somebody you want to just give them a
study this will help them walk through
it these three-part studies so this
microwave study I got to be like a
microwave push play here we got to go go
so number one we're looking at today is
the proper Unity of all believers in
Christ Jesus so what is the proper unity
and if you can look AB above you'll see
the answers but I want you to see the
scripture why we say that for I tell you
this is Matthew 16:18 so I tell you you
are Peter and I will build my church on
this rock the power of death will not be
able to defeat my church church so Jesus
Built and owns in one United group of
Believers his church class yeah help me
out Ephesians chapter 1 and verses 20-
23 he used to raise Christ from the dead
and put him at his right hand right side
in the Heavenly places he put Christ
over all rulers authorities powers and
Kings he gave him authority over
everything that has power in this world
or in the next World God put everything
under Christ's power and made him head
over everything for the church the
church is Christ's body it is filled
with him he makes everything complete in
every way so answering the question for
this verse Jesus is the head over
everything for the church which is also
his body absolutely Ephesians chapter 4
and verse4 there is one body and one
spirit and God chose you to have one
hope so as there's only one hope and one
Holy Spirit there must be only one body
that's right and then John 17 veres 20
and 21 this is the prayer of Jesus he
said I pray not only for these followers
but also for those who will believe in
me because of their teaching verse 21
father I pray that all who believe in me
can be one you are in me and I am in you
I pray that they can also be one in us
then the world will believe that you
sent me so the question is Jesus prayed
and asked the father for all who
believed in him to be one exactly and
then 1 Corinthians 1 verse 10 says
brothers and sisters by the authority of
our Lord Jesus Christ I beg all of you
to agree with each other you should not
be divided into different groups but
completely joined together again with
the same kind of thinking and the same
purpose so by Jesus Authority we are
begged to agree and not
be divided that's right and then
Colossians chapter 1 and verse 18 He is
the head of the body which is the church
he's the beginning of everything else
and he is the first among all who will
be raised from Death so in everything he
is most important so our question is
Jesus is over Church organization
worship and name his views are most
important so that's the first section
that proper Unity of all believers in
Christ I want to look at the proper
organization of all believers in Christ
Matthew 15:13 says Jesus answered every
plant that my father in Heaven has not
planted will be pulled up by the roots
so Jesus said every church not planted
by the father will be pulled up by the
roots so that's the reason that we want
the church to be organized properly we
don't want it to be taken apart by the
Lord himself in Acts 14:23 it says this
they also chose Elders for each Church
chur and stopped eating for a period of
time to pray for them these Elders were
men who had put their trust in the Lord
Jesus so Paul and Barnabas put them in
his care so each church that trust in
Jesus chose men who trust Jesus to be
Elders absolutely that's what we why we
have Elders here acts 20: 17 identifies
that we're talking to the elders there
verse 28 says be careful for yourselves
and for all the people God has given you
talking to these Elders the Holy Spirit
gave you the work of caring for this
flock you must be Shepherds to the
Church of God the people he bought with
his own blood so the question Jesus
bought the church with his blood and
gave Elders to Shepherd that's exactly
right Titus 1:
5-7 says I left you in cre this is to
Titus so that you could finish doing
what still needed to be done for the
churches there and I also left you there
so that you could choose men to be
Elders in every town to be an elder a
man must not be guilty of living in a
wrong way he must be faithful to his
wife and his children must be faithful
to God they must not be known as
children who are wild or don't obey an
elder has the job of taking care of
God's work so people should not be able
to say that he lives in a wrong way he
must not be someone who is proud and
selfish or who gets angry quickly he
must not drink too much and he must not
be someone who likes to fight he must
not be a man who will do almost anything
for money so filling in the blank to
care for God God's Church men need to be
chosen in every town as Elders exactly
that's why we have Elders 1 Timothy 3
veres 1-7 says it is a true statement
that anyone whose goal is to serve as an
elder has his heart set on a good work
an elder must be such a good man that no
one can rightly criticize him he must be
faithful to his wife he must have
self-control and be wise he must be
respected by others he must be ready to
help people by welcoming them into his
home he must be a good teacher he must
not drink too much and he must not be
someone who likes to fight he must be
gentle and peaceful he must not be
someone who loves money he must be a
good leader of his own family this means
that his children obey him with full
respect if a man does not know how to
lead his own family he will not be able
to take care of God's Church an elder
must not be a new believer it might make
him too proud of himself then he would
be condemned for his pride the same as
the devil was an elder must also have
the respect of the people were not part
of the church then he will not be
criticized by others and be caught in
the devil's trap so the question that we
have is a qualified Elder must be a
married father and a mature believer
to take care of God's church that's why
we have these
men 1 Timothy 3:
8-12 in the same way the men who are
chosen to be special servants also known
as deacons for us to be special servants
must have the respect of others so this
is true for the deacons that we also
have in this church they must not be men
who say things that don't they don't
mean or who spend their time drinking
too much they must not be men who will
do almost anything for money they must
follow the true faith that God has now
made known to us and always do what they
know is right you should test them first
then if you find that they have done
nothing wrong
they can be special servants or as we
call them deacons in the same way the
women must have the respect of others
they must not be women who speak evil
about other people they must have
self-control and be women who can be
trusted in everything the men who are
special servants must be faithful in
marriage they must be good leaders of
children and their own families so the
qualifications of Elders are combined
with qualifications for special servants
or deacons and then Philippians 1 verse
1 greetings from Paul and T Timothy
Servants of Jesus Christ to all of you
in Philippi who are God's holy people in
Christ Jesus including your elders and
special servants so God's people in
Christ were LED and cared for by elders
and special servants that's right the
third section we're looking at now is
the proper worship the proper worship
Services of all believers in Christ so
these are the reasons if you're new to
us why we worship the way we do in
church here John 4 verse 24 God is
spirit so the people who worship Him
must Worship in spirit and truth so
Jesus said God must be worshiped in
spirit and in truth that's right in John
17:17 again in that prayer where Jesus
is praying it says make them ready for
your service through your truth your
teaching is truth that's the prayer
Jesus was making to the father so Jesus
said God's teaching is truth thus
worship must fit
God's teaching that's why we depend so
much on the scriptures Matthew 15:9 says
their worship of me is
worthless the things they teach are only
human rules talking about a particular
habit they had of not taking care of the
elderly in their family and giving the
money they would do for that to the
church or to the synagogue if you will
so let's fill in the blank Jesus said
it's possible to worship worthlessly if
we follow human rules what humans say
that's you and me we don't get to make
the rules Luke 2 2: 19 and 20 says this
then he took some bread and thank God
for it he broke off some pieces gave
them to the apostles and said this bread
is my body that I am going I am giving
for you eat this to remember me we had
that a little bit ago as you recall
verse 20 in the same way after supper
Jesus Took the cup of wine and said this
wine represents the new agreement from
God to his people it will begin when my
blood is poured out for you you notice
that we took bread the fruit of the vine
if you're new to us let's fill in the
blank Jesus said his followers after his
death would eat and drink to remember
him that's right 1 Corinthians chapter
10 and verse 16 says the cup of blessing
that we give thanks for is a sharing in
the blood sacrifice of Christ isn't it
and the bread that we break is a sharing
in the body of Christ isn't it so
followers drank a cup and ate bread
sharing in his blood and body right acts
20: 7 on Sunday we all met together to
eat the Lord's Supper often your
versions will say the first day of the
week which is Sunday to eat the Lord's
Supper Paul talked to the group because
he was planning to leave the next day he
continued talking until midnight my
favorite verse in the Bible anyway it
says on Sunday all his followers met
together to
eat the Lord's Supper that's why if
you're new to us we have the Lord's
Supper every first day of the week on
Sunday 1 Corinthians 11: 23- 26 the
teaching I gave you is the same that I
received from the Lord so what we're
teaching is apparently from the Lord on
the night when the Lord Jesus was handed
over to be killed he took bread and gave
thanks for it that's what he did first
then he divided the bread and said this
is my body it is for you eat this to
remember me verse 25 in the same way
after they ate Jesus Took the cup of
wine he said this cup represents the new
agreement from God which begins with my
blood sacrifice when you drink this do
it to Remember Me this means that every
time you eat this bread and drink this
cup you are telling others about the
Lord's death until he comes again each
Sunday his followers partook of the
Lord's Supper to remember his death
exactly Acts 2 verse 42 the Believers
spent their time this is the very
beginning of the church in Acts chapter
2 after the 3,000 were baptized the
Believers spent their time listening to
the teachings of the Apostles they
shared everything with each other they
ate together and prayed together so
Believers listen to teaching they shared
they ate and they prayed together
absolutely which is what we do every
first day of the week Luke 11: 2-4 Jesus
said to the followers this is how you
should pray father we pray that your
name will always be kept holy we pray
that your kingdom will come give us the
food we need for each day forgive our
sins just as we forgive everyone who has
done wrong to us
and don't let us be tempted so Jesus
taught his followers his disciples his
Believers how to pray it's why we pray
every Lord's day and then Luke 18: 1
through 8 then Jesus taught the
followers that they should always pray
and never lose hope he used this story
to teach them once there was a judge in
the town he did not care about God he
also did not care what people thought
about him him and in that same town
there was a woman whose husband had died
she came many times to this judge and
said there is a man who is doing bad
things to me give me my rights but the
judge did not want to help the woman
after a long time the judge thought to
himself I don't care about God and I
don't care about what people think but
this woman is bothering me if I give her
what she wants she will leave me alone
but if I don't give her what she wants
she will bother me until I am sick the
Lord said listen there is meaning in
what the bad judge says God's people
shout to him night and day and he will
always give them what is right he will
not be slow to answer them I tell you
God will help his people quickly but
when the son of man comes again will he
find people on the Earth who believe in
him so Jesus taught his followers never
to lose hope but to always pray so it's
always appropriate to have a prayer but
especially in church 1 Corinthians 16: 1
and 2 says now about the collection of
money for God's people the saints of God
do the same as I told the Galatians
Church to do on the first day of every
week that Sunday again as you recall
what I said a moment ago on the first
day of every week each of you should
take some of your money and put it into
a special place save up as much as you
can from what you are blessed with then
then you will not have to gather it all
after I come so Sunday the first day of
every week they also gave for God's
people so much of what we spend the
money on is you and the people of God
and Matthew 26 and: 30 it says they all
sang a song and then went out to the
Mount of Olives this is Jesus the night
he was betrayed Jesus participated with
his followers in singing songs right so
it's appropriate if the Lord Jesus does
it I assure you in Ephesians chap 5 and
verse 19 it says encourage each other
with Psalms hymns and spiritual songs
singing and making melody in your hearts
to the Lord so the Ephesian Believers
were encouraged to sing making music in
their heart so it's not about playing an
instrument my friend we'll come back to
that idea in a minute first Corin the
instrument that you play is your heart 1
Corinthians 14:34 the women should keep
silent in these Church meetings they are
not allowed to speak out but should be
under Authority as the law of Moses says
so it's not a new trend it had been in
the scriptures from the beginning in
church worship meetings men must lead as
women should
not speak out that's what it says 1
Timothy 2 and ver8 I want the men
everywhere to pray I want the men
everywhere to pray men who lift their
hands in prayer must be devoted to God
and pleasing to him they must be men who
keep themselves from getting angry and
having arguments it's talking about the
leaders of the prayer listen to what our
answer question is it says during church
worship men who are devoted to God must
lead prayer that's why you see men
leading the prayer here it's not because
we are sexist it's because the
scriptures say 1 Timothy 2:12 says I
don't allow a woman to teach a man or
tell him what to do Jesus she must
listen quietly and worship assemblies
men must teach and women must
listen quietly what it says my friend
Matthew chapter 6 verse 5 When you pray
don't be like the Hypocrites they love
to stand in the synagogues and in the
street corners and pray loudly they want
people to see them the truth is that all
the reward they will that's all the
reward they will get so when we pray in
our assemblies it must not be for other
people to see that's why you may not
like that system but it's not for you
the system's not for you it's for
someone else watching so now we're into
the regulatory principle of worship you
may never heard those terms before the
regulatory principle and the normative
principle of worship there are these are
old these are hundreds of years old
they're not from us we didn't invent
this a lot of people think Church Christ
came up with this is not true it was
around hundreds of years before the
restoration movement the regulatory
principle basically maintains that it's
different for worship the normative
principle basically maintains that
that's the way you live your life and
the day-to-day living of your life
basically this if there isn't something
that forbids a thing to be done then you
do what you want to do in that situation
you do unless the the Bible actually
forbids you from doing that thing you
can do that thing but in worship we
believe the regulatory principle kicks
in the regulatory principle basically
says this what is not expressly
commanded is therefore bid forbidden
while the normative principle says what
is not expressly forbidden is acceptable
we don't believe that for worship not
now we're going to walk through the
scriptures that teach that so you
understand why we are so much of a
stickler on that point Hebrews chap 11
verse4 says Cain and Abel both offered
sacrifice to God but Abel this very
beginning but Abel offered off a better
sacrifice to God because he had faith
God said he was pleased with what Abel
offered and so God called him a good man
because he had Faith Abel died but
through his faith he's still speaking so
this teaches that in the worship of God
to please him it must be of Faith which
means it has to come from the word of
God in Leviticus 10 veres 1 and 2 it
says this then Aaron's sons naab and Abu
made a mistake they took their incense
dishes and put some fire and incense in
them but they did not use the fire that
was on the altar they took fire from
another place and brought it to the Lord
this was not what he had commanded so
fire came from the Lord and destroyed
naab and Abu and they died there in
front of the Lord so this teaches that
in the worship of God to please him it
must
be what he has commanded not what I
think should be done second
Chronicles 26: 16-20 says but when Aza
he was King but when Aza became strong
his pride caused him to be destroyed he
was not faithful to the Lord his God he
went into the Lord's Temple to burn
incense on the Altar for burning incense
Azariah the priest and 80 Brave priests
who served the Lord followed Aza into
the temple they told Aza he was wrong he
wasn't a priest on the priest could do
that in the Old Testament they told usza
he was wrong they said to him Aza it is
not your job excuse me to burn incense
to the Lord it is not right that it is
for for the priest Aaron's descendants
to do that that's the Commandment of God
they are the only ones who have been
prepared for the holy work of burning
incense you have not been faithful so
you must go out of the Holy place the
Lord God will not honor you for this but
oza was angry he had a bowl in his hand
for burning incense while oza was very
angry with the priest lepy broke out on
his forehead this happened in front of
the priest in the Lord's Temple by The
Altar for burning incense Azariah the
leading priest and all the priests
looked at oza they could see the leprosy
on his forehead the priest quickly
forced him out from the temple Aza
himself hurried out because the Lord had
punished him you see he did what he
wanted to do Pride can cause one to try
to do more in worship than what
is commanded so the regulatory principle
of worship versus the normative
principle of worship basically we do not
follow the normative principle that's
what we follow in our daily life
regulatory if it's not commanded it's
forbidden now we looking at the next
section we're getting close to the end
here the proper God honoring name of all
believers what should we call this group
that we're here Matthew 16: 15-18 says
then Jesus said to his followers and who
do you say I am Simon Peter answered you
are the Messiah or we'll say Christ you
are the Messiah the Son of the Living
God Jesus answered you are blessed Simon
son of Jonah no one taught you that my
father in Heaven showed you who I am so
I tell you you are Peter and I will
build my church on this Rock The Power
of death will not be able to defeat my
church so Jesus said I will build my
Church on the Rock of truth that I am
God's Messiah so he built the church
that is Christ Jesus acts 20: 28 says be
careful for yourselves talking again to
Elders as you recall in this text be
careful for yourselves elders and for
all the people God has given you the
Holy Spirit gave you the work of caring
for this flock you must be Shepherds to
the uh Church of God the people he
bought with his own blood so Jesus
bought the people call the Church of God
with his
own blood that's right in 1 Corinthians
chap 1: 11-13 it says my brothers and
sisters some members of Chloe's family
told me that there are arguments among
you churches have arguments verse 12
this is what I mean one of you says I
follow Paul someone else says I follow
Apollos another says I follow Peter and
someone else says I follow Christ verse
13 Christ cannot be divided into
different groups it wasn't Paul who died
on the cross for you was it were you
baptized in Paul's name so the answer is
Believers aren't to follow men such as
Paul Apollos or Peter but
follow amen and then Colossians 3:1 17
everything you say and everything you do
should be done for Jesus your lord and
in all you do give thanks to God the
Father through Jesus so everything said
or done by Believers should all be done
to honor Jesus your Lord that's why it's
called The Church of Christ my friends
Romans 16 and verse 16 says this give
each other the special greeting of God's
people all the churches that belong to
Christ send their greetings to you so
all all the churches should wear names
that make it clear they belong to Christ
amen to that Hebrews chapter 8 verse 5
the work that the priests do is really
only a copy and a shadow of what's is in
heaven that is why God warned Moses when
he was ready to build the holy tent be
sure to make everything exactly like the
pattern I showed you on the Mountain
Sounds almost like the regulatory
principle to do it exactly as I tell you
and then it suggests that we must be
sure to make everything in the church
exactly like the pattern yeah so here's
the summary of what we've looked at I
know we went quick sorry the proper
Unity of all believers in Christ we
should be United this idea of all
different churches going different ways
is not the right thing the proper
organization of all believers we talked
about elders and deacons in independent
congregations the proper for worship
Services we talked about all the acts of
worship that we are to engage in that
have been specifically spelled out for
us we looked at this difference between
the way people look at worship some
believe that you just should do if it's
not forbidden you do it so we could have
ice cream and in the middle of the
Lord's Supper no the regulatory
principles what we believe is the most
correct biblically and then the proper
god-honoring name and naming of those
Believers should mention our lord Jesus
Christ so let's reverence all the
Believers in Jesus Christ that are in
his church it's only appropriate too
often I think his church has not been
treasured or kept true to its forms some
people don't know what the church is
heard of a man that was asked what his
church preference was and he said red
brick um there's roughly 350 to 400,000
churches in the United States of
America that's roughly one church for
every thousand
Americans so we've got a lot of
diversity on that a door too survey was
conducted by Willow Creek several years
ago asked simply one question if you
don't go to church why why do you not go
to church and there are the answers five
answers number one it's boring number
two it's
irrelevant number three they're always
asking for money number four I'm just
too busy and number five I really kind
of feel awkward at
church the thing is you got to be
careful that you don't become so
critical of the church because look the
church is false because it's full of all
of
you full of me too
right so careful you don't become so
critical of the church and Believers in
Jesus that you decide that no church is
what it ought to be so I'll go out and
fix my own that's why we got so many
different kinds everybody thought that
way I don't like it the way it was one
of the most common reasons people give
for rejecting Christianity in the church
and the Believers is there all a bunch
of
Hypocrites it's not true but it's an
easy thing to
say author walkington pink you may have
heard of him before quite a a big writer
it's a
calvinist he's criticized for being too
individualistic and too critical of a
temperament and by one author uh James
Roots he quotes pink this is supposedly
what pink said please avoid this
statement if there are any churches
listen if there are any churches which
are scriptural in their membership in
their maintenance of discipline in their
preaching and in all that concerns their
Public Services we do not know where to
find
them we have traveled completely around
the world but there is no church known
to us where we could hold
membership that is pink and his wife and
pink and his wife remained at home on
Sundays for the last three decades of
their life and he's supposed to be a
Bible
scholar William Temple said this and
he's more correct he's an Anglican PR
listen to what he said the church is the
only Cooperative Society in the world
that exists for the benefit of its
nonmembers Wow have you ever thought
about that one of the major reasons we
exist is to bless everybody who's not a
member so if you're not a member today
one of the major reasons we exist is for
you so let's reverence all the Believers
in Jesus as his church church we hope
that you might be persuaded to look into
it a little deeper may be going into
this study and we'd like to answer more
questions about you if you're here today
and you haven't given your life to Jesus
we want to help you do that there may be
someone here today wants to put the Lord
Jesus on in baptism we look forward to
it God bless you come if you need to Why
Don't We Stand and say
