we're looking at today one receives the
prize and we'll get into that in just a
moment but I want to say something about
the Wild game day we had yesterday it
was awesome and I wanted to say
something to everybody who made that
possible and that is you guys really
killed it and so
uh I know I ate too much it was great
and we had a great crowd it's a great
fellowship if you missed it you missed a
windy day but it was really really good
good food and I went through the line
two times maybe three but that's about
all and I want want I'm on that subject
I thought you know I don't say much
about those who make the coffee and the
cookies and all those Good Eats
available very often but I can to tell
you there an every Sunday group of
people working back there and and I
appreciate them don't you amen I
appreciate the work that they do and um
it's not just I appreciate the people
who made yesterday possible I appreciate
every Sunday those people coming through
it may not be good for uh your diet but
it is really good for fellowship and uh
a wonderful time thank you so much I I
tell you Our Guest Services all the way
around though are outstanding people
opening doors for you standing at the
door helping you find your way they're
great people I also need to say
something about uh John Walsh um John I
didn't win that
dollar uh you know I didn't because I'm
not good at anything I can't play golf I
can't play tennis I can't fish I can't
hunt these are all True by the way I'm
not making that up not trying to sound
cute I none of that but probably my
worst thing is hand and foot and he
knows that very well Keegan gave me that
dollar and told me your story that's why
it's in the collection plate this
morning so uh don't want to have
anything to do with it again love you
John just want to say that now people
think I'm still not into my lesson yet
but this kind of a preface to it people
think uh now that their purpose in life
a lot of people believe this their purp
whole purpose is to just live free and
uh to decide their own identity who they
want to be and become a sort of a social
Warrior but the truth is it's a lot
easier than than the way the world faces
their purpose because the truth is is
that if you are a Christian uh God in
Christ is the one who does it it's so
much easier because he gives you your
freedom he gives you your identity and
he gives you your purpose and so that's
kind of the lesson that we're looking at
today is on that very subject and oh in
fact this is kind of the first and kind
of a series on the subject and I need to
suggest what this lesson's really about
because because if you're if you don't
pay attention you read this text and you
don't get this you could be confused
it's about
exceptionalism being uh exceptional uh
the topic sometimes is confused with
being saved but if it were about
literally being saved only one person
would be saved okay so it's not
literally about a person being saved as
much as it's about those who are being
saved and understand theyve been saved
by the grace of God by hearing the
gospel believing it confessing Christ
being baptized living for the Lord those
kind of things then you understand that
what the holy spirit's calling us to is
exceptionalism a a way of living like
Christ because certainly Christ was
exceptional let's
pray Father in Heaven uh Jesus won the
race for us he is the one he is the only
mediator between Heaven and Earth he did
it he is the exceptional one he saved us
father all of that you know but it is
good for us to repeat it to you father
and so as saved individuals by your
grace we understand that the Holy Spirit
through Paul is calling us to a higher
plane to a life of Living an exceptional
way to be Christlike in the way that we
live help us to be those Elite people
those people always ready and prepared
to do your will or to face whatever
Temptation comes our way help us to be
those Resolute people that are living
according to your rules that is the
scriptures and that we spend our life in
the purpose that you've designed as far
which is to give you glory and honor
forever more and worship you it's in the
name of Jesus we pray
amen so I was talking about purpose as
you know that's what we're dealing with
today and I discovered that car filters
you know those things that they charge
you for and put in your car they
absolutely have no purpose clearly
because all they ever do is sit there
and gather dust I
mean that's purposeless
right have you ever noticed that smooth
things also have no purpose well at
least they have no point
uh I hope yall awake
now we're looking at the purpose of life
and so I want you to see how many times
the purpose of life is made very
clear numbers 11:21 all the Earth shall
be filled with the glory of the Lord
what do you think God's going for Psalm
72:19 and blessed be his glory glorious
name forever and let the whole earth be
filled with his glory amen and amen
Isaiah 6:3 and one cried to another and
said holy holy holy is the Lord of hosts
the whole earth is full of his glory
what do you think God's understanding
and goal is Isaiah 11:9 the Earth shall
be filled with the knowledge of the Lord
as the waters cover the sea where is God
going with all this Isaiah 43:7 everyone
I have created for my glory I have
formed them Isaiah 43: 211 people I have
formed for myself shall declare my
praise Jeremiah
31:34 no more shall every man teach his
neighbor and every man his brother say
know the Lord for they shall all know me
from the least of them to the greatest
of them says the Lord habach 2:14 for
the Earth will be filled with the
knowledge of the glory of the Lord as
the waters cover the sea what do you
think the point is 1 Corinthians
10:31 whatever you do do all to the
glory of God but probably the greatest
passage on this point is Ephesians chap
1:
3-4 I'll read it all and I'll emphasize
the three places that it makes the point
so clearly verse three says blessed be
the God and father of our Lord Jesus
Christ who has blessed us with every
spiritual blessing in the Heavenly
places in Christ just as he chose us in
him before the foundation of the world
that we should be holy and Without Blame
before him in love that's his purpose
for us to how we live but that's not his
sole purpose verse five having
predestined us to adoption as Sons by
Jesus Christ to himself according to the
good pleasure of his will then you begin
to hear what it is verse six to the
praise of the glory of his grace that's
the first time by which he has made us
acceptable in the Beloved verse 7 in him
we have Redemption through his blood the
Forgiveness of sins According To Riches
of his grace verse eight which he made
to abound toward us in all wisdom and
Prudence verse n having made known to us
the mystery of his will according to his
good pleasure which he purposed in
himself what is he purposing what is his
Good Will verse 10 that in the
dispensation of the fullness of times he
might gather together in one all things
in Christ which are in heaven and which
are on earth in him verse 11 in him also
we have obtained an inheritance being
predestined according to the purpose of
him who works all things according to
the counsel of his will so he wants to
gather us all together this is all
according to his will what's the purpose
of that verse 12 that we who first
trusted in Christ should be to the
praise of his glory that's the second
time it says it verse 13 in whom you
also trusted after you heard the word of
Truth The Gospel of your salvation in
whom also having believed you were
sealed with the Holy Spirit of Promise
who is the guarantee of our inheritance
until the Redemption of the purchased
possession that means we've been
purchased but we have not been fully
redeemed as yet our body has not been
redeemed yet it will be though to the of
the purchased possession to the praise
of his glory three times it says it to
the praise of the glory of his grace to
the praise of his glory to the praise of
his glory Philippians 1 vers1 just in
case you missed the theme that's coming
through being filled with the fruits of
righteousness which are by Jesus Christ
to the glory and praise of
God God seeks such to worship him that's
her Duty not every disciple faces life
with this purpose nor with this concept
of
exceptionalism uh the only one in fact
is Jesus he is the one and only mediator
according to 1 Timothy 2 and verse 5 we
are not
saving uh ourselves by entering the race
you're already in the race you're not
saving Yourself by running the race
you're already running the race you're
not saving Yourself by finishing the
race you will have to finish the race I
promise you you will finish it one way
or the other we are talking about
exceptionalism we are not saying that
only one person will be saved Jesus did
that we do mean that a
spiritual being needs a
goal Romans 12 and: 11 we need to have
Zeal of and Focus about our goals in
this life we do mean that exceptionalism
is that worthy goal and Jesus was
certainly exceptional and we are to Pace
ourselves according to him Paul is
setting forth a philosophy of the
purpose of your life if you're a
disciple to glorify God in this race and
how do we do it we must regard ourselves
not only in the race we must regard
ourselves in a battle and we must be
spiritually fit and not flabby soldiers
we are to engage this like this is the
only thing that matters for us for it is
our purpose on this Earth no one will
ever get anywhere without serious
self-discipline but if you're going to
do what God really wants for you you're
going to apply exceptionalism to
yourself to the point that it will make
you
uncomfortable now William James a
philosopher and a psychologist in fact
he was uh one of the first ones to
actually have a course in Psychology in
the United States he's called the father
of American psychology and I'm not a big
psychologist fan but I thought what he
had to say here is really good he said
if this life be not a real fight in
which something is eternally gained for
the universe by success it is not better
than a game of private theatricals from
which one may withdraw at will but it
feels like a
fight as if there were something really
wild in the universe which we with all
of our idealities and faithfulness are
needed to redeem
it it's like you've got something really
important to do
many approach life kind of slack joged
coasting alone doing as little as
possible is that where you are just
coasting we must avoid
depression coasting will make you
depressed halfhazard Lifestyles will
give you nothing but despair we must
make ourselves think because if you quit
thinking soon you will be incapable of
thinking we must discipline our
souls not ignoring our sorrows but
facing our sorrows and facing our
troubles we must face Temptation with
the strength and the courage that God
gives us we must know what our true goal
is and what our real purpose and what
God really made us for you are not made
for
you we must live with the intent and
avoid aimless drifting with absolutely
no purpose I don't know what my life's
purpose is how many times have I seen
people in college already and got no
idea what they're going to do with their
life and they're thinking it's about
their career and what it's about is
God Satan walks around
aimlessly so that's where you're headed
when you live aimlessly listen to what
it says in job 1:7 the Lord said to
Satan from where do you come so Satan
answered the Lord and said going to and
fro from walking back and
forth you say well Satan has a purpose
not the purpose like what we're talking
about if you're a Christian you don't
just walk around you've got a purpose we
need to know the worth of our purpose
and the worth of our goals this is not
just mild mannered stuff this is Big
Stuff the goal of life is to glorify God
and to make that one life life known to
the world to glorify God that's the
purpose of life and Laurel Reese that
they gave back then when they want a
race would soon be wilted it'd be gone
not like these plants that are not real
but they'd just Wilt overnight it would
be gone but our our Crown is different
we seek First Corinthians 9:25 an
imperishable Crown we seek 1
Thessalonians 2:19 the crown of
rejoicing we seek second Timothy 4:8 the
crown of righteousness we seek James
1:12 the Crown of Life we seek 1 Peter 5
and verse4 the Crown of Glory all of
those unless of course you just kind of
living life and doing about whatever you
want whenever you want to do it and it's
all about you and having fun and what am
I going to do tomorrow for fun and what
am I going to do next week for fun
unless of course you've realized you
have a greater purpose that it's not
just to be saved so that you can do
whatever you want to do without worrying
about
it you are called to be an exceptional
individual which is
hard so we want to walk through that as
the spirit guided Paul he calls us to
that higher platform as if you won the
race and you stand on that top platform
he doesn't want you second and third he
wants you to do the best that could be
done with with you see you don't have
everybody else you have you you aren't
to do the best on necessarily the planet
but you're to be the best you you can be
and that's what you're called to be and
let's see if we can walk that path
because ultimately the reason that we're
doing it is what's our purpose to
glorify God did you hear me right y'all
got that right so what's our purpose
class to GL glorify God let me ask it
one more time cuz I don't think
everybody said it what's our purpose
class to GL amen amen amen and amen and
so if it's to glorify God it isn't to
just have fun and live life and figure
out what I'm going to have for
lunch it's more let's walk our way
through number one to receive the prize
the way Paul describes it in this text
we need a realization we need
realization it says do you not know in
other words and that word there means to
perceive have you not perceived that
those who run in a race and by the way
the word race is not the word it's
Stadium those who run in the stadium
which is where they ran the races all
run but one receiv receives the prize
run in such a way that you may obtain it
so what we need to realize in this text
is we need to realize that in this race
there are limited patterns to run what I
mean by that well a race is around a
certain pattern right it's around a loop
or something there's only limited
patterns you don't have unlimited
patterns you can't run this race over
and over and over again this is a one
time through and there's a limited
pattern you have and there are limited
places to run this race you don't get to
run in my place I don't get to run in
your place I don't need to I don't live
over in timbuk too I live right here
this is it that's my place you have your
place and you run it so there's limited
place by the way there's limited prizes
along the way there's limited prizes in
fact Philippians 3:14 says the prize so
Paul calls us to be among the
elite why because Jesus was
Elite be like him number
two to receive the prize we must use
restraint we need
restraint you can't do this well if you
just indulge yourself in everything it
says in verse 25 and everyone who
competes for the prize is temperate that
means
exercises self-control not exercises but
exercises self-control which is the last
of the fruit of the spirits right I
think it's last because it's the hardest
one to do I mean you got to build up to
that self-control is tough I mean it's
easy to love somebody loves you but to
be self-controlled in all things it says
now they do it to obtain a perishable
Crown but we uh for an imperishable
Crown so we must must exercise self
discipline that's what he's calling us
to not doing whatever I want but
restraint why to be stronger you see the
next time it comes I'll be able to
handle it better if I don't use
restraint I won't be able to handle it
the next time either and always trying
to be ready and
prepared for Jesus went out in the
wilderness right to be tempted of the
devil and he fasted making himself
stronger rather than weaker to face the
Temptation for there's always
one uh that we run
against that's what Ephesians 6:12 says
there's one standing against you you
don't run in this race alone you have
Devils working against you I promise you
if you haven't seen them you haven't
paid attention there's Devils around you
trying to prevent you from doing well so
why because Jesus was always ready and
when he wasn't ready he prepared himself
he went in and he fasted he got himself
ready you getting yourself ready for the
next tough thing number
three to receive the prize we need
resolve we really need to be resolved to
do this it says in verse 26 therefore I
run thus not with uncertainty that means
not without an name not
aimless thus I fight not as one who
beats the air never hit anything that
way
are I need
resolve you see we must not be
halfhearted or aimless in our Christian
walk Galatians 2:2 says lest I might run
or had run in vain he's worried about
them that he'd miss out on the blessing
even from them and that they would not
be blessed Hebrews 12 and verse1 run
with endurance the race that is set
before you you got to have resolve
you're going to finish you got to keep
checking on the people you're working
with and you got to run with resolve
yourself keep going with endurance first
2 Timothy 4:7 says I finished the race
this is Paul about to
die he still saw himself in the
race finish ing my race so Jesus was
resolved I don't know how he did it
every day he knew where he was going to
a cross every day all of his life he
knew where he was going but he
Resolute I mean at one point he was so
Resolute to go to Jerusalem there were
people didn't want to talk to him didn't
want them him to come by and speak to
them don't come in here you're going up
to Jerusalem don't and you're not coming
through here it's like that people don't
like others when they're too Resolute
have you noticed because they're slack
jawed relaxed not really focused on what
they're doing and when you're Resolute
it makes them feel
guilty right you know what I'm talking
about now not everybody's
Resolute but we're to be Resolute and
then finally the last point is to
receive the prize we need rules you got
to have rules it's not a race if there
no rules it's just running around out in
the yard like we used to do when we were
kids in 1 Corinthians 9:27 it says but I
discipline my body and bring it into
subjection lest when I have preached to
others I myself should become
disqualified another way to translate
that is not stand the test another way
to translate that is rejected or Cast
Away as King James said it we must
follow the
rules the rules are quite evident we
know what the rules are we must follow
the rules we don't get to vote on the
rules we don't take a survey and arrive
at the
rules we read the rules there's a rule
book you read the rules and those who
don't follow the rules like in any valid
race is disqualified from the contest
whatever you do doesn't count if you cut
across the corners that doesn't count
you don't get to do that you got to run
the race according to the rules 2
Timothy 2 verse 5 you race according to
the rules so
Jesus did it according to the rules
without sin it
says he kept fulfilling all
righteousness you remember when he was
baptized and I must fulfill all he
wasn't a sinner but he was going to
fulfill all righteousness do what the
will of God said so one receives the
prize that's the Lord Jesus but it is a
message to us all that I want you to be
that way in your life to approach it so
that you would be so exceptional the
only one around you know the spirit
calls us to a higher
platform we think about oh if I just get
into heaven I'll be okay just let me you
know stand at the door you know we all
talk like that but the truth is that
shouldn't be our attitude at
all that should me our motivation is to
glorify God at the highest possible
level as a child of
God I know that sounds horrible it
sounds tough how we going to do that but
to receive the prize you say well what
prize are we talking about I don't
know but it is the prize of
exceptionalism to go there you got to
have a realization a real knowledge that
God wants you to try this you got to
have some restraint God wants you to try
this you got to have resolve God's
calling you to try this to not just talk
about it you got to know that there are
rules and they
matter so he wants you to be like Jesus
to be exceptional you know we need the
spirit yeary within us to glorify God at
the highest level I like what uh John
Wesley said he said I want the whole
Christ for my savior the whole Bible for
my book the whole church for my
fellowship and the whole world for my
mission field I like that that's good
that sounds like I need to be thinking
bigger and harder and deeper CS Lewis
said this this he said the glory of God
and as our only means to glorifying him
the salvation of human Souls is the real
business of
life so my goal is to glorify God every
way I can but especially to take one
more soul with
me a disciple of Christ who does not
know what their goal is supposed to be
it's kind of like Alice in Wonderland
you remember when he was talk she was
talking to the chesher cat and she said
would you tell me please sir which way I
ought to go from here and the Chester
cat says well that depends a good deal
on where you want to get to where you
want to
go and she said well I don't much care
where he says well then it doesn't
really matter which way you
go if you don't really care about
exception ISM then do whatever you want
to
do it seems that many
Christians disciples Believers have
forgotten their goal we're kind of like
a captain in a ship that has no port in
mind like in
1963 University Christian Church in New
York had a sign on the outside of their
building and they'd closed down and it
read going out of business did not know
what our business was imagine that
church forgetting what its business was
what's our business folks glorify God
share Christ be transformed to help
other people be transformed and serve
the people around us but what's the
first goal glorify
God ABD Einstein was on a train of
course everybody on the train it's hard
to miss who he was that hair I mean you
know everybody knew him right so he's on
a train everybody on train knew him and
prior to leaving the station the
conductor goes around checks your ticket
you know he's he's walking around
checking tickets and Albert Einstein's
over in the corner going through his
pockets he's looking he's looking in his
bag he's looking and and finally the
conductor got over to him and said and
he says uh I I I've lost my ticket and I
can't remember my next stop he said well
it's okay Mr Einstein we we all know who
you are it's okay we'll figure this out
he says oh no oh no I I know who I am
too he says but uh I don't know where
I'm
going I need my tiet do you know where
you're going what you doing what's your
purpose have you actually thought about
it have you realized and really
considered that you're on a higher
Mission than just floating through life
because you've been
saved H have you not seen it the Spirit
by Paul
calls us to this higher platform now
listen to me he's not just calling you
to do something
greater he's calling you to stand on a
higher platform when you get
there you do see that
right you get it right did you miss that
it's in this and it's to motivate us to
think there might be higher
platforms
is there such a concept in the
scriptures actually there is but we
don't talk about it we don't talk about
it where is it Mark chapter 10 verse 40
two guys actually asked for that they
wanted to be I want to be on this
platform and I want to be on that
platform where does he saying I'd like
to sit on your right hand I'd like to
sit on your left hand and Jesus said
there's no such thing as that in heaven
we're all on equal t no that's not what
he said what
he said to sit on my right hand and on
my left is not mine to give but it is
For Those whom it is
prepared you mean there actually is a
seat on his right hand and a seat on his
left hand and some humans going to sit
there well he either said the truth or
he didn't what do you
think so if it is true there are IAL
seats you want to try for the lowest or
you want to try for the
highest what you want to do when you
finish this and you go belly up just
like the rest of us will do you want to
just eat in the door and say well I got
in the door or do you want to do your
very best do you want to be an
exceptional Christian one that has made
even God say hey did you see him you
remember what he did with joke did did
you see have you seen
job or don't pay any attention to him
he'll be saved but don't don't look at
which way is he looking at you right now
you see why not be the exceptional one
be exceptional for Jesus he certainly
was exceptional for you wasn't
he and he calls you to do such simple
things to be saved to hear the gospel to
believe it to repent of your sins
confess Christ to be baptized
and then to live for him but he doesn't
just call you just to make it through he
says get in the
race finish
well what are you doing with your life
he calls you higher if you're not living
there maybe it's time to make some
changes if you need to come forward
we'll do everything we can to help you
in that process while we stand why we
say
