there was a DEA officer that showed up
at a Texas ranch that was checking for
uh who knows what he's checking for but
anyway he talked to the old Rancher who
own the the whole Ranch and he said I I
need to inspect your Ranch for illegally
grown
drugs and um the Rancher said that's
okay but don't go in that field over
there and and this guy said mister you
know I have the authority of the federal
government behind me and he pulled out
his badge and he says look at that badge
you see that badge this badge means that
I can go wherever I wish no questions
asked do you understand me sir and the
Rancher went quiet and just
nodded and so a short time later the DEA
officer was screaming and running for
his life he was being chased by the
Rancher's big bull that was in that
pasture over there that he pointed to
and as he's running and screaming the
Rancher yelled at the top of his voice
your badge show them your
badge
yeah just because you Proclaim you have
authority doesn't mean you have good
sense either Paul David trip said one of
the foundational heart issues in the
life of every child
is Authority teaching and modeling the
protective beauty of authority is one of
the foundations of good parenting
Authority um I will say that I think
Joseph life reveals a lot of principl
principles about Authority you might
just take a look at this here's some 10
sources of his authority that I think we
we we're supposed to respect authority
anyway but you begin to see why would
respect authority look at this he had
the authority of character uh Genesis
39:2 says the Lord was with him uh he
had the authority of success Genesis 393
he said everything prospered in his hand
he had the authority of service verse
four suggests and he served pfer well he
had the authority of a position uh that
potier ended up making him oversee over
all that he had position brings
Authority he had the authority of
knowledge verse six says he that Piper
did not even know what he had but Joseph
did he had the authority of morality
when Piper's wife made the inappropriate
advances to him he fled and went
outside he had the authority of charm
even when he goes to prison in in
Genesis 39:21
the leader of the prison uh gave him
Authority because he gave him favor in
the sight of the the man that ran the
prison he had the authority of
accountability verse 22 of that same
chapter uh whatever they did was under
Joseph's care in the prison so literally
he answered back to the leader of the
prison and he had the authority of trust
uh verse 23 says the man who ran the
prison did not look into anything he was
doing just totally trusted him so I
don't know how long it took to him get
to all that kind of a trust but he had
it then he had the authority of
spirituality because it says in verse 23
also that the Lord made everything that
he put his hand to prosper so those are
sources of authority that's not the
whole thing and one of the things that I
think we all need to recognize is that
we all struggle with authority and we
all at from one time or another probably
rejected authority over us we struggle
with it our challenge in our life is to
live for the Lord and not us that's what
the scripture that was read a moment ago
really challenges with the challenges us
with this idea that we are under
Authority and we are not to live for me
anymore let me just touch a couple of
things things it says he died for all
that those who live should live no
longer for themselves but for
him so Our obligation now which we may
not be following is to not live for me
but to live for him that means he has
full authority over me right now and I
don't have the right to just do whatever
I want to do I may think I have that
right but I don't if I'm going to come
under his authority Romans 6:22 says
having been set free from sin and having
become slaves of God if we're truly the
slaves of God we're truly his servants
at that level he's in authority over us
Galatians 2:20 I have been crucified
with Christ is no longer I who live but
Christ lives in me so I don't get to
pick and choose How I Live it is Christ
picking and choosing in my life and
Colossians 2:20 says if you died with
Christ from the principles of this world
why as though living in the world do you
subject yourselves to these regulations
so literally if I died with Christ then
I don't have any rights in this world
I've let that go Authority is upon my
life second Peter 2:10 though says that
there's a struggle with that it says
that there are those and he's talking
about people who go to church with Peter
right right he's not talking about
people of the world he's talking about
people who go to church it says that
they despise
Authority and they're not afraid to
speak evil of dignitaries now imagine
that church people uh Jude talks about
the same group of people in Jude 1 ver8
says they reject Authority and speak
evil of dignitaries the last thing we
need to be is people who speak evil of
dignitaries we need to try to control
our tongue and we need to try not to be
people who reject any form of authority
over our life even when you don't agree
with what they're doing even when you
don't agree because if you only going to
uh submit yourself and if submission if
submission is only submitting yourself
when you agree with it then that's not
submission that's
agreement and uh
wives
children Whoever has Authority when a
police officer rolls up
you know if you only submit when you
like
it that's not submission so the duties
therefore when we're talking about this
in line with parenting this Authority
principle the duties of a parent have
always been very very serious this is no
joke they're very serious Genesis 1819
says for I have known him that he may
command his children command and command
do you hear those words command his
children and his household and his
household after him that they keep the
way of the Lord to do righteousness and
Justice wow that's that's not terms we
hear today Deuteronomy 6:7 you shall
teach them diligently to your children
so that Authority comes with
responsibility that you have the respons
ility to make sure that your children
fully understand in in a diligent way
what the requirements are Psalm
78:4 we will not hide them from their
children telling to the generation to
come the Praises of the Lord and his
strength and his wonderful works as you
done so one of the responsibilities of
authority is to make sure that those
under your Authority are not ignorant of
what they need to know That's essential
in them learning the principles of
authority so Paul trip gives six I'm
going to give them to you those are the
ones those are the six suggestions to
help parents teach authority to their
children so these are not mine these are
his they're in the book you can look it
up if you get the book establishing
Authority and respect for authority
early in their life in Little Things is
doing gospel work so children need to
learn the IDE idea of who's in charge
and Authority
early early and the earlier the
better exercising ambassadorial
Authority for Christ is also doing
gospel work that is you representing the
king to your children like as if you
were an ambassador literally and helping
your children to understand why they do
what they do and why they do not want to
do what they do not want to do that's
gospel work we have to help them
understand what's wrong inside of them
just like what's wrong inside of me and
why often don't want to do the right
thing exercising consistent Authority is
doing gospel work one of the worst
things we can do as parents is one be on
one page and one on the other y'all know
that's true when one believes in let's
just say let's say You're really at
logger heads One Believes In spanking
and the other one doesn't believe in any
kind of discipline imagine that so one's
willing to spank a child and the other
one's not even willing to get on to the
child
wow that's that's distance apart so you
need to give consistent Authority uh
confessing that you struggle with
authority as well and that you are more
like your children than unlike them and
that's doing gospel work to your
children need to see you're a fellow
struggler in this Authority thing but
that you are doing maybe a little better
than they are hopefully let's hope you
are and So eventually they can get there
and that gives them hope and then of
course in discussions of authority
talking to your children about the Cross
of Christ and how he had to submit to
the authority and go to the cross for
for the sake of the love of his father
you taught me that brother I'd never
noticed that John 14:31 so literally uh
that's doing gospel work there are many
who have authority that and they have
authority that I don't have and we need
to recognize that everybody in this room
is not in
Authority uh well we have Elders here
well that do mean they're in authority
over everything uh all the elders here
in this church as much as I love every
one of them have no authority over my
immediate family like I do and nor over
your immediate family like you do now
you answer to them Church yep absolutely
but they don't tell me how to talk to my
wife unless I start hurting my wife you
know they don't get involved in that
it's none of their business until I get
it out of hand and I start sinning so
governments for example we don't dictate
terms to the government and we don't we
we do what they say we have to abide by
whatever the rules are employers my
employer if you're out here working in
the workplace your employer that's a
different Authority and they get to make
choices but Church Elders are a source
of authority and so are husbands and so
are parents and so we're going to look
at briefly Ephesians 6 1-4 and I want to
pick out just a few things maybe you've
missed maybe you haven't want to look
through that and talk just in line about
Ephesians 6 and this Authority principle
we're just going to look and find about
five basic rules for exercising proper
Authority okay here we go number one
parental Authority principles are from
God and therefore are right so this idea
about well I don't like this whole talk
of
authority you're up against it buddy
because this is not me this is God God's
the one forms these things Ephesians 6
and verse one children obey not kind of
do what they say children obey your
parents in the Lord for this is right
now that didn't mean they are always
right there's never been a parent that's
always been right now there's been a few
that thought they were but there's never
been a parent that was always right
never been one made mistakes spanked
them maybe when you shouldn't have right
that's happened got on to them when it
wasn't them it was the other kid that
you know that kind of thing it
happens but it is
right and they are right to exercise
Authority and command children
command that's the reason the word obey
is there do you have the right to
command your children yes you have the
right as a parent to command your
children thus the term obey and that is
it because you are such a wonderful
person it is because God ordained this
that's it
so God gave you that right the second
principle I want you to see is that
parental Authority principles are from
God and are
blessed so not only is it right to
exercise authority over your children to
exercise authority over children
receives the blessing of God verse two
says honor your father and mother which
is the first commandment with promise
what is that promise it states it in the
very next verse verse three that it may
be well with you so your life will go
pretty good and you may live long on the
earth or on the land originally one of
the translation but the point is is that
that's a blessed way to live to have
your children under your Authority for
them to respect you and for them to do
what you say for them to do is blessed
of God God it's not kind of right it's
right and it's not just right it's
blessed right so yes children are under
the authority of their
parents number three working through
these pretty quick parental Authority
principles are from God and are
limited that's right you don't have all
authority
you hear
me fathers mothers you do not have all
authority over your
children that's not what this is saying
this is not saying you do whatever you
want oh no there's not anybody that's
got that kind of power okay nobody has
so much Authority that they can do
whatever they want anywhere on the
planet you know nobody has that listen
he limits it in verse four and you
fathers do
not that's what it says do not it means
there's something you aren't allowed to
do not if you want to do it my way this
is God talking right if you want to do
it the way the Holy Spirit instructs
through Paul here you don't do it my way
there are some stuff you can't do you
don't have the right well I have the
right to talk to my kids any way I want
I'll do whatever I want know you know
you may do it but you don't have the
right to do it listen to what he says
and and you fathers do not provoke your
children to wrath don't so put them in a
corner that they feel like they're going
to bust and come at you last thing you
want is a is a teenage boy want to hit
you I'm talking about moms too by the
way if you got 11 12 year old that wants
to hit a mom I mean hit a mom and it's a
boy you better get control of that right
now and in fact let me go back a little
bit you got a three-year-old that's
starting to hit you you need to get
control of that right now okay and if
they're if they're cursing you when
they're little bitty you got to get
control of that right now you got to
make whatever they're doing the worst
idea they've had in a
while you figure out how you going to do
that that's a bad idea you don't do that
right amen okay and and and I don't but
but I'm tell you straight up though uh
you don't have the right though to do
whatever it takes to make them do what
you
want
uh-uh no because if you go too far any
of y'all ever I'm want to do something
here let me this is bad to ask
this if any of you ever gone in the back
room said something bad about your
parents have any of you ever been pushed
to the point by one of your parents that
you almost struck back anybody anybody
oh yeah oh yeah yeah I didn't think I a
bunch of cowards okay so yeah I've been
there yeah I've been there I was
ready going just a little far
here stop it going too far
especially after you get to be about 16
17 18 years old and they still talk to
you like you're a three-year-old no
you're not talking to me like a
three-year-old when I'm
18 I don't care who you are
amen moms and dads you got that message
quit talking to them like they're a
three-year-old when they're
18 okay you don't have the right to do
that you got to as they
develop and they
develop you got to treat them with
respect
too they deserve respect you're not the
only one that deserves
respect you push them over the edge and
they'll do something you that you'll be
sorry they'll be sorry it'll hurt them
the rest of their
life yeah I almost went there okay uh
the next
one parental Authority principles are
from God and are disciplines and by
disciplines I
mean they teach
and you are to teach them disciplines it
says verse four but bring them up in the
training in admonition of the Lord the
training the word there New American
Standard translates it this way bring
them up in the
discipline of the Lord that means you
teach them disciplines what are the best
way to teach a
discipline what's best way to teach
discipline I'm talking about
self-control best way to teach it is
display it
second best way is to show them how to
do it and to do it with them right you
want to young boy to learn how to pitch
a ball you got to get out there with him
amen just got to get out there that's
the only way you just expect him to go
outside and throw it against a wall
ain't going to work you got to help him
there and that's true when it comes to
anything we believe you want them to
learn the disciplines of the
Lord you got to show them something uh
you got to not just talk vulgar to
him you can't talk use the f word around
your kid and expect him not to use
it you can't
say some God blank something another and
not expect your child to do it you can't
skip church and not expect your kid not
to do
it you have to display disciplines that
you yourself how and as they see those
and then you say and you're not going to
do that either that has power that has
power but if you start telling don't do
like I do do like I say do you forget
it you forget it no power in that so
discipline training uh that's teaching
them the discipline that you're trying
to learn from the Lord number last
Al Authority principles are from God and
are
instructions there have to be
instructions but particular kind of
instructions it says bring them up in
the training and admonition of the lord
well we don't use the word admonition
very much in our society in fact I don't
think I've heard anybody say that hardly
at all don't hardly say it at all
anymore New American Standard says bring
them up in the discipline and
instruction of the Lord that's weak
instruction of the Lord's a little weak
but basically it means means to warn and
train with words that
warn to warn and train with words that
warn if you do that you're going to get
your head knocked off by somebody you
know that kind of thing right now there
are things that we know that we I don't
know where we learned them right I give
me give you I mean that you don't need
training for if you get on an elevator
and there's somebody standing in the
corner you don't don't go stand next to
them Keegan
so okay there's a
joke right you did somebody teach you
that do you remember anybody ever saying
something like that they if you go in
the library and there's one person
sitting at one in the library you don't
get your book and go sit right down
right next to them right you don't know
them you said you don't do that right
you sit kind of at the other end or
somewhere in the middle away from them
right you know that rule where'd you get
that rule I have no idea where that came
from I never was taught that nobody ever
said that to me we just all know that's
true but there are other things there
are other things I needed help with I
need to learn that I don't say that and
I don't do that because I can get into
that kind of trouble right and we all
need that so that's parental Authority
principles it's your responsibility so
you have the authority because you have
the right you have the authority because
if you teach these things you'll be
blessed you have the authority because
you limit yourself you don't push too
hard you have the authority because you
teach disciplines because you are
disciplined yourself you have the
authority because you give them
instructions that warn them on things
that could get them in deep trouble
simple things like how to even handle
their money there's so many kids come up
today and don't recognize how to handle
their money got no idea how to handle
their money don't even know how to
balance a bank
account okay so that's it that's the
lesson Authority is hard by the way on
us all but it's hard particularly on a
sinner that hasn't given his life to the
Lord Jesus yet that's a hard thing to
even talk about if you're sitting here
tonight and you're not a Christian if
you think if you're sitting here and you
are a Christian you think this sounds
hard if you're sitting here and you're
not a Christian this sounds really hard
it sounds hateful it sounds mean it
sounds like you well what you're just
going to abuse your kids you know they
don't get it they don't understand why
it's essential they don't understand the
warning aspect of it and especially
since by the way Authority can be abused
and is abused in our world and it's
abused regularly and that's a problem
and because Authority is abused and
pushed too far from time to time some
people are against any form of authority
well that's too far too so it's one
thing yes abuse of authority someone
pushes you around that's abuse
absolutely but to not recognize that
there's forms of authority that's almost
abusive because now you you're without
any
restraint uh do y'all remember Jimmy
Carter I'm looking at some young people
they like oh don't know Jimmy
Carter we got married in
1976 Jimmy Carter was president in 1976
and I'll never forget uh the 200th
anniversary of America 1976 any of y'all
remember that I'm looking at people
going on I don't remember
that okay not old enough but Jimmy
Carter was Once Upon a Time president of
the United States and Amy Carter was
their daughter remember that he got
advice on nuclear weapons one time from
her that's actually happened sounds
crazy but it actually happened Amy
Carter brought home one day an
assignment it was on a Friday uh while
her father was president and there was a
question in her assignment she stumped
over it was about the Industrial
Revolution now believe me I am not smart
about this stuff okay I'm just going to
tell you what anyway so she didn't
understand what was being talked about
so she went to her mother her mother's
name was Roslin right rosn Carter so she
went to Roslin and asked her mother what
what's being discussed here about the
industrial re Revolution and Roslin had
no idea didn't know what it was either
so she turned to one of the AIDS there
in the White House right so she turns to
one of the AIDS talks to the AIDS shows
her the assignment says what is this
talking
about the Aid had no
idea so the aid turned to the Department
of Labor without talking to rosin about
it turned to the Department of Labor and
as they talked to the Department of
Labor because it got confused now there
was a rush placed on the request since
the assignment was due by Monday this
was Friday it was due Monday and the
Department of Labor thinking the
question was a serious request from the
president himself the Department of
Labor uh officially cranked everything
up and had people in the computers
working and all the team was working
overtime all week long over time right
time and a half overtime all week long
to get this answer so a report was
brought out on Sunday this report cost
the government several hundred th000 to
produce this massive printout was
delivered by a truck to the White House
to answer a question about the
Industrial Revolution and it was Sunday
afternoon when it came and Amy Carter
took that report as it was and walked
into her teacher's office and laid it on
it was impressive and laid it on her
desk uh her teacher was not
impressed gave her a big c a red C for
that report because she didn't do it and
she didn't really
understand but that's what happens if
you're not if you're not careful
Authority can be
misunderstood and things can get done
that don't need to be done or someone
can get hurt in the process or a waste
can happen so not just children struggle
with authority and children do struggle
with authority and if you think your
children don't struggle so you let's
just say you have a kid and God bless
you if you do and and Mo and I'm not
talking about having a kid that didn't
make any sense okay let's just you have
a kid who's very
compliant right does pretty much
everything you say whenever you say it
if you say jump on the way up he says
how hi Daddy how hi mommy you know just
whatever you say don't be
fooled into thinking they have no
struggle with
authority don't be fooled
have you never noticed that you're
you're kind of ready for them to leave
at 18 and they are
too there's
reason to get out from underneath what
they perceive as
Authority it it it does kind of run here
it's not just children though who
struggle with
authority
wives we don't even talk about
submission to husbands
anymore oh that's anatha now you're not
even supposed to use those
terms to obey your
husband you're not supposed to say that
anymore that's so antic cultural to even
say it is to get people mad at
you but it's in
there I didn't write any of this
stuff so yes and so that's you remember
when I said if you only do what they ask
you to do when you agree with it you're
not in
submission CU submission is when you
agree or don't agree unless it's evil
right let's they ask you to do evil but
it's reasonable just because you don't
like it don't mean you say oh I object
I'm not doing that well that's not right
that's not appropriate you should try
try to get along that's the way we all
do so children there are children that
struggle more than other children there
are children that are really upset that
you dare tell them what to do they get
really upset and especially in our
culture I'll call HR on
you you dare to tell me what to do who
do you think you are this free country I
have free I have freedom you don't you
don't get to tell me you you've kind of
messed up if you gotten that far
especially so you need to work on this
it's not a joke try to exercise
Authority but try not to exercise undo
Authority because if you exercise undo
Authority maybe that's the reason that
they're not wanting to comply so we must
learn and we must practice and we must
teach how to surrender to God did you
hear that I so if I want to learn how to
be a person that teach his proper
Authority I have to learn
first I have to learn to practice doing
what I'm
told I have to learn then after I've
heard it and learn it and practice it to
then turn around and teach it that I
have tried to surrender to God to the
government to my
boss to who whoever is over
me surrender to God and if I do that
maybe when it comes to this job maybe
I'll actually be able to teach them how
to do it but sometimes I think maybe I
can't teach it right because I never
learned myself that I'm living
rebelliously know what I'm
saying that's my lesson tonight if
you're here tonight T you've never given
your life to the Lord this whole subject
of authority may be too far for you I'm
sorry honestly honestly I really don't
want to offend you I know I do I know I
offend people all the time I offend
people regularly it's not my
goal I tell you what's also not my goal
if I if I go to my nature my goal is not
to do anything anybody else tells me to
do
that's my
nature anybody else struggle with
that and I my my thought is listen to
what you say not what anybody else says
that's my
nature so if the children sitting here
the young people sitting here saying ah
I don't like somebody talking to me like
that hey none of us do none of us do but
you know we have to learn that just to
get along and so it's essential parents
that you teach the authority principle
if you're here tonight and you've never
given your life to the Lord you need to
always be willing and understand that
we're open for you to come so if you
want to come in this invitation song
Come and we'll whatever your needs are
let them be know while we stand and
while we sing
