no I'm not speaking but I want to tell
you a couple of things before Dorian
Flynn gets up here tonight most of you
know Dorian if you don't you'll still be
thrilled in just a moment when he gets a
chance to speak uh the work that he's
done uh partners for Africa great great
work but known Dorian in a long time not
as long as my wife has but a long time
and everything he's been a part of it's
like he's like the guy everything he
touches turn turns to Gold he's just
done so many really good works uh going
all the way back to the Caribbean and U
in north Alabama with the church there
and everything I've ever heard he did he
he did a great
job it's kind of spoke to me about I
needed to tell y'all because some of you
don't know Lord willing April Deb and I
are going to Africa and uh most of you
know that but not everybody probably
knows it we're going to go to Africa for
the month of April so what's going to
happen is uh I don't know how many of
you know we did work in Africa so we
want to do a little bit of a lot of
different things we want to check on the
congregations that we help start see how
many of them might still be around and
how things are going there we want to
see some of the congregation some of the
Brethren that we worked with over there
want to do that uh we want to check on
Paul Deb's brother Paul sheby who
basically has been a part of restoring
ing a Church of Christ that kind of
slipped away and became uh for one of a
better word a Baptist Church and now has
back and has given up the instrument and
it's back in Fellowship full fellowship
and has reached out to the rest of the
Churches of Christ in the area we going
to check on them see how they're doing
but one of the first things we're going
to do the first week we're there Lord
willing in April is we want to join uh
Dorian and and uh Sherry up there in uh
Zimbabwe to to look into what all
they're doing partners for Africa I
thought we were just going for a visit
but apparently we're speaking all over
the place I didn't know that was going
to happen uh just looking more of just a
laidback kind of thing but apparently we
speaking a lot but uh looking forward to
that seeing the work that we have
sponsored with them for or not sponsored
but been a part of for I don't know how
many years now how long have you been
doing
this 1 17 years and I suppose not long
after you got involved we were involved
with it and a lot of you you know do you
know when we started 15 years yeah and a
a lot of you Brethren have done some
wonderful things there may be an
opportunity ton not even but many times
he's mentioned something that needed to
be done and you've just stepped in and
paid for it or helped to pay for it or
done some work with it so God bless you
for all that I wanted to say something
personal just about Dorian that I
haven't said so far and I think I think
this needs to be said about him somebody
needs to say it at some point because I
really watched a very faithful man be
very dedicated to a great work for a
long long long time and I mean a lot
longer than 15 years and um I was just a
kid when I first met him oh that's not
true but but uh but I will we'll say
this you know um do you remember the
story of um Elijah Elijah was going to
leave he going to be taken up into
heaven and and Elisha followed him
around and uh Elisha wouldn't leave him
and Elijah kept saying no just wait here
and Elisha said no no no I'm not leaving
you I'm going with you and uh the other
prophets watched from a distance but
they didn't go and they crossed the
Jordan and by a
miracle and he and Elijah says well what
is it that you want he says well I'd
like a double portion of your blessing
now I'm not expecting that I'm I'm
getting to another story but any rate um
he said 'w if you see me when I'm taking
up then maybe God will grant you that
and he
did so Elijah went up by a whirlwind saw
the Chariots as you know a fire taking
him
up but then after he was taken up and
Elisha went back what happened is the
other Prophet said he has a whirlwind
let's go look for his
body he's probably cast on some Hill
around here
oh a tornado got him that's what they
thought let's go
look and he said no that's not what's
happened you don't understand I saw the
Chariots of the Lord he's taken up to
heaven and said no no no no let let's go
look and so he finally got embarrassed
he said go look so they looked right for
three days 50 men looked for his body
obviously after 3 days he'd have been
stinking they would have found him no
and he said I told you you and here's
the message of
that God doesn't lift you
up just to let you
down he doesn't lift you up just to cast
you down the end of that story is
Matthew
17 Elijah's on the mountain with Jesus
and
Moses and he's pointing the way for
us what I'm trying to say is I believe
that this man has been lifted up so many
times in so many ways because of the
work he's
done and I don't know what will be the
end of his life but I am telling you his
life will point the way for generations
of
missionaries and I really believe that I
think you need to pay attention to what
he's doing I've never seen anybody
engaged any more than he has it should
be an example to us all about how to get
engaged
in Mission work whenever we do anything
I believe he's like Elijah on the Mount
of
transfiguration pointing the way so
whenever he departs this world and we've
had to watch his father but whenever you
depart I think you're going to be that
Elijah that we're all going to remember
and say man do you remember Dorian and
what he did we need to do something like
that cuz he's still doing great works
toian come tell us about some of the
stuff you're doing appreciate
you well let me just say first of all
it's it's absolute joy to be here uh to
be in your new
facility and to uh
know uh you built a facility because
there are all kinds of things that you
want to do to connect with the people in
your culture and I I think that that is
wonderful
and I want you also to know that when I
walked in here I I I I got to see Rex
and Deb and they are special to Sherry
and
I um it's it it blesses your life and it
it's a con it's a contributing factor to
being faithful when you know there are
people in other places of the world
sometimes uh simultaneously in Africa or
in the states and you know that they are
living for Christ and they are wanting
to grow his kingdom and and and their
family is that way and and I I I will
always I always love them for that and I
I appreciate it and I am relishing the
time that we can spend together and that
program by the way is
flexible when you come but uh it's great
to be here
now I want you to know that we haven't
stayed in the same place when I was here
last time we are moving along and so
what I'm going to share with you tonight
is going to be some of the new things
that have that have happened um let me
just uh whoops oh that's okay so so I'm
seeing songs here so that's why I need
to turn around um by by the way let me
back up uh I know the lighting I know
you guys have got special lighting here
but but that that picture I just want
you to know that's my picture okay I
mean I love lions and I got up and
that's not a zoom lens by the way so you
know Lions uh have always been my
favorite
animal uh especially the male lion you
know I I've I've just loved that you
know and and it's a it's it's a
two-sided coin in as far as it being a
great life and a sad life because when a
male lion reaches its peak it's just for
a short time
you know I mean they kind of you know
they they they they rule their area they
they they they rule their pride and some
have more than one
Pride uh this past
summer um there was a
lion uh there's a story about a lion in
Tanzania and he was called Bob Jr
because his father was called Bob Marley
and you know Bob with these you know
that's what they said so but he did
something unusual first of all he was
about 11 12 years old but he had a pride
for seven years it's where he reigned
all the time you got these young Lions
coming up man you know all of these guy
young guys flexing and then this comes
this is the sad part they said they were
observing him you know he had fought off
so many and kept his pride finally three
Young Lions male lions came for him and
they said he put up a fight for a while
and then he just relented you know and
they took him down but they still my my
my my my my favorite animal so anyway
give me allow me a little story on that
so the Global Outreach I I do want you
to know our work is expanding we're in
southern Africa we're in seven countries
but we also we we lived many years ago
in the Caribbean and we're starting to
help some islands in the Caribbean as
well now uh Dominique is the first one
and so uh so our Outreach is extending
further and further um this container we
shipped about three ah about four weeks
ago to Dominica Dominica is a very
mountainous Island um uh and because of
the Hurricanes that come through it it's
like they gravitate towards these
mountainous Islands you know and these
islands get clobbered Dominica like
almost uh two or three years in a row
which was just annihilated and so we are
sending containers to to to help them
but but I do want you to see the island
a little bit um it's just if if you had
to think of a Garden of Eden today
that's it I mean there's no poisonous
snakes there you know there's uh you
know I mean it's it's you just we hiked
all up in there and uh uh my my grandson
and myself and the preacher that we all
up in there man and it was just F
fantastic I just wanted you to and this
is at the base of one of the trees in
the forest there and that's Lewis Roma
the minister there and my grandson
Tristan um so I want you to see this one
because where where Deb and I grew up
close to Victoria Falls there's a lot of
bobab trees well in Dominica I saw bobab
this bobab
tree and the hurricane had hit it and H
had fallen
over and it had crushed a school bus cuz
that's what that yellow strip is that's
a school bus and they had parked the
school bus by the bay B because they
felt like the hurricane wouldn't damage
it boy boy were they wrong on that I
mean I have a Double T what yeah no
that's a school bus you know so so the
power um we are in Zambia and we've been
in Zambia for about probably three or
four years shipping containers but we
are working there really hard now it's
very receptive and there are areas
Zambia is a big country by the way just
let me say this in southern
Africa there's three countries there
Zambia Namibia where we're working right
now and South Africa that are larger
than Texas I won't say this in Texas but
it's larger than Texas in fact South
Africa is almost twice the size of Texas
so I just want to give you an idea of
the expanse of southern Africa and and
and where we are working so Zambia is a
country that's taken off and and and
needless to say but let me say it
because some of you might not have he
heard me tell it before uh um you know
you baptize someone in a river in Zambia
or Zimbabwe uh especially up north
Victoria Falls that's close to Kuba Dam
all that area you've got to have long
poles and you've got to stick those
poles down cuz you got to make sure
there's no crocodiles so it takes a
little maybe more faith to be baptized
there you know than than here but but
anyway it's uh it's quite quite quite
amazing we started a radio program there
and um just excited about that had 47
baptisms this year just from the radio
program uh you know just delated about
what's happening there this gentleman
right here is a brother in Christ
Charles Peri and he is he's one of the
leaders in Zambia uh an amazing an
amazing man and uh we are so thankful we
have a partnership with him this was one
of the gatherings in Zambia during our
leadership training programs uh this
happened in August of this past year you
know
so the people um have this
hunger uh when when when brothers and
sisters want to come from the US and
they want to teach and they know that
these brothers and sisters are mature
they've got Decades of study of the word
of God behind them and they love to come
well this was a leadership training
program but they couldn't help but
invite their neighbors so so we had
close to about a thousand people a day
um and so what happens uh about
lunchtime there are people that want to
obey the gospel and so we spend the
afternoon teaching all of these new
invites you know and uh it wasn't
unusual to have 10 lined up 12 lined up
you know and uh quite uh quite exciting
and presents quite an amazing picture at
the end of the day you know for you to
have in your mind you don't have to
leave a hook for people to come back the
next day that's it right there you know
so um so we have the the ACT project
which is uh
uh uh Africa container transport which
you saw with Dominica okay we have
shipped
44 45 46 that was the 47th
container now if you work it out about
1,200 boxes on a
container you can you can kind of
mathematically figure out how much how
many boxes Walmart has donated to us and
um then we have the mom project Mak
orphan meals and currently we are
feeding about
2500 orphans a week in three countries
that's besides the special feeding that
that represents right there to Village
areas where it is very dry uh where
where uh where Deb and I grew up uh the
rainfalls about 19 in a year in mat land
uh I don't know how much rain you get
here maybe you had 19 Ines in the last 5
days I don't know but what I what I'm
saying you get precipitation all year
round it's not that way in in Zimbabwe
you get your rain starts November it
ends in April and you're done and if the
rains don't come then you're in serious
trouble and and so there's dry areas
they can't grow their food and they end
up being hungry and many many Die just
from starvation and so this has proved
and let me just stop it right
here our good works is not not an end
game we want them to know Jesus
Christ we want them to know the bread of
life but we want we know that Jesus
fed we know that he you know that's part
of being a child of God is meeting the
physical needs of people and what
happens opportunities come to share the
bread of life after that so so it's so
we are thankful that we can do that
these are people in Zambia that had come
uh uh uh hungry and I just want you to
know one of those bags is 10 uh 10 kg
which is 22.2
pounds and it lasts the family for about
a month with about a meal and a half a
day
um so I I joke with people I I'll tell
them I said you know in Africa when they
say they're hungry they probably haven't
eaten for three or four days in America
when we say we starving is we're having
lunch at 1 instead of 11: you know I
mean we're just so blessed but don't let
me end on the
negative America is a generous country
and I honestly believe I know we're not
perfect I know we got problems and
challenges in our country but one reason
I believe that America continues to be
blessed is because we are a generous
people and amongst our fellowship it it
just amazes me and blows my mind to
see how much we can do and how much we
we do just from our vehicle called
partners for Africa so I I I I love you
all and appreciate all that you do uh
this is
Namibia and this is Johannes Peters
we've just started working with him and
uh doing a tremendous work
uh this is a backyard Bible team he put
together you know that is we have found
that that is a tremendous vehicle to
plant churches get Bible backyard you
know back backyard Bible clubs going and
you you you feed the children you play
games with them you teach them a Bible
Lesson and the parents in The Villages
they start coming around because before
their kids were just running around the
village I mean just just aimless and now
you've got a program going they're
coming home excited and before you know
it but we planted three churches last
year just because of backyard Bible and
so we appreciate this team uh that was
put together in Namibia and so here is
these youngsters
that they have now you know are part of
this and now they're learning to pray
yeah you can see this other guys are
looking on you know so so you know they
following the method but it's it's great
you know they they some of them some of
them don't know Jesus Christ well they
all don't know Jesus Christ they might
have heard of him and some of them might
be into ancestral worship or witch
doctors or whatever but yet you know uh
here we start and we show them the
Christ you know so this are some of the
leaders I'm not going to go through it
it's not the best of pictures and let me
just say
this it's a you know we're a wealthy
country so we we get new iPhones or we
can have a good good phone good you know
they they have phones but I mean so when
they get give me pictures I am just so
happy for it you know just so
thankful uh South Africa this is uh uh
dilus malumi him and his wife they they
are they are a dynamite couple they in
Northern South Africa called vender and
he does a tremendous he he he has
Evangelistic Spirit about him and the
young people just love him uh uh we we
we are so glad to have this partnership
uh with dilus and he's just immersing a
an older man into Christ there
um so this is Cape Town this is the East
rid Church of Christ if you'll notice on
the left you might not be able to read
it I don't know if you can it says East
East Ridge Christian Academy
now Cape Town is a city of almost 5
million I was born
there and it is a beautiful city and I'm
sure some of you heard of it maybe some
of you have already been there to visit
it's one of the leading tourist
attractions in the
world but because it's a big city it
also has some
serious crime in certain areas they've
had gangs there since my father who is
96 seven was a boy in some of those
areas and the gangs have maintained
themselves and and one of those areas is
Eastridge it's in a area called
Mitchell's plane and you can Google it
and it will tell you the there is one
gang they're called The Americans now I
don't know red white and blue you know
they so this church makes it clear when
you worship with them we're not going
nowhere crime is not going to push us
out of this area they've started the
school it's now going to go all the way
through high school and they're going to
do their a trick their High School uh uh
but they said we're not backing off one
iota we did a seminar there uh last year
and the preacher who I'm going to show
in just the next
slide he says Dorian you guys have had
your seminar we went from 10: to 4:00 in
the afternoon he says now you guys need
to go back to your hotel because you
don't want to be here at night time and
he he wasn't joking either but but but I
but I appreciate them you can see the
burglar bars or the the the metal cages
you on the windows and all that but I I
just love that church and um so this is
Theo and his wife Amy Theo is the
minister there Amy uh heads up to school
um that little boy is not their son they
have they have three little girls
beautiful but I just want you to know
and I am so sorry that I his name eludes
me right now but that boy is special
because this past in 2023 he memorized
500
scriptures 500 script now you know if
you memorize it at that age it's got to
stay with you not at my age you know but
at that age and that's that's just
amazing so he want a special award you
know for for getting that done
um so this is in Vendor remember I
showed you dilus Mambi baptizing that
guy uh this is uh at the congregation
one of the congregations he's planted so
we
invited young people College AG from
Benda to come here a good friend of mine
uh um his name is Dr Mike housez and if
he was up here tonight to speak he would
say I'm a deacon at the Madison Church
of Christ close to Huntsville Alabama
I'm I'm a deacon in missions and that's
all he'll say and one reason I love him
is because he's so humble but he has a
PhD from MI it and he works with NASA
and he is actually on the team whose
goal is to put somebody on
Mars but he will take his time and he
will pay his way and he'll come with us
and we will go to Universities in
Southern Africa and he'll he'll get up
when he gets up there he will I mean
share unbelievable current knowledge
about Rockets cuz his specialty is
nuclear propulsion and those students
just sit there in Amed and then after
about 15 minutes he'll stop and he'll
say now I want to tell you after
describing the cosmos and all of that I
want to tell you about the God that
created
this and some of those University
students who come from and evolutionary
background and they their professors as
well got their hands up because they
want to take him on and he said give me
another 15
minutes and then I'll answer every one
of your questions and he does and what I
love about it is
no
question is does he condescend in his
answer to that person and and so I love
it so we had 200 a little over 200
students come from the University of
Venda and they some of them were were
Christians some of them weren't but they
came and do you know that they this is
summertime now because this was the 3rd
of December this was just a few weeks
ago it was summertime it it was
104° and there was no AC and they sat
from 10: in the morning till 3:00 in the
afternoon and listened to him and I just
thought boy you know what could motivate
you more you know and so I I just want
you to know this that you are a part of
this okay you you have been helping us
Faithfully as Rex mentioned for the last
15 years and it's just I I just want you
to know that when you think about what
Creek Side does
just know that this is part of what
you're doing and and we we are so
thankful you know uh your your prayers
you you you your your your your support
your and individual help that we have
got uh just had a a wonderful sister
come up to me tonight and say listen I
got all these Bibles can you get can you
have them and we're going to we're going
to get them you know and we appreciate
all of
that so this is Zimbabwe just showing
you some of the countries we involved in
this is one of the orphans we feed and
this is his first ever piece of cake it
was a Merry Christmas cake had Merry
Christmas on it buddy and he that was
his first bite of a cake he had eaten
cornmeal before what we call sza but I
mean this was his cake and he was one
happy camper
man I don't think he's had that much of
a blast of sugar in his life you
know this is uh one of the new
congregations that we have uh planted in
the guanda area and that's osaba the guy
in the black T-shirt he's the minister
there and he's one of the guys that
starts with these backyard Bible clubs
and gets these churches planted and uh
he is quite an
innovator so that church that we have
just
planted that's their source of
water so they they
walk a a mile round
trip so so they walk half a mile and
they go dig in a dry River bed till they
get to the water and they fill their
buckets and let me just tell you they
that dirty water is put in buckets on
their head and it weighs 41 A little
over 41 lbs once the bucket is
full and they make several trips a
day those young
girls and they drink that water
and they use it to bathe or
whatever we need a well
there we need to put a submersible pump
all the way down so we can pump it up
and then solar panels that will pump it
to the tank the to the Village that's
what we need and it's going to cost
about $7,500 we already raised $
2,000 so this is uh some of our
leadership uh the the guy the
so Shaq with the beard he has come about
15 times from Texas but this is one of
our leadership programs and uh it's uh
it's um we're working with about close
to 500 preachers now uh that's besides
elders and and and and and teachers that
are both men and women uh we're thankful
I just had that picture up there because
I want to tell you this past year we we
immersed 1,8 into
Christ and uh uh we had set the goal of
over a th over a th last year didn't
quite make it but we have this year and
so we looking at about 1,500 this year
that we would that we want to uh immerse
into
Christ so the food distribution goes on
right now the rains have not come we've
had a little bit of rain but not much so
we Distributing food right now each one
of those bags costs about $10 and will
feed as I said a family for a month I
just had to show this
because when we got to the Village this
guy only had uh underwear that's all he
had no nothing else he's running around
quite cheeky by the way a few holes in
he's underwear if you know what I mean
and and so we came out there and and and
we got you know our container we got
clothes and that and we decked him up
man I mean we decked him out and he
looked so good and then gave him a
banana and he's got his sandwich I mean
does life get any better than that
really you know talk about Merry
Christmas I just I just love that man
his mom his mom was just smiling man of
course one of the things that we have
started last year is a compassionate
Ministry um because what's happening in
much of Africa is that people are dying
prematurely uh waterborne diseases in
the areas that I've showed you early 30s
because of the water they drink some
from
AIDS um some just from walking down the
road and getting run over children
because they walk to school so what we
have done now is we've gone into
Villages and these are Villages where
people still live in mud huts and they
don't have
resources and so if someone they lose a
loved one under special uh
situations we will go in there and we
will build them a coffin we will take
the body
in the back of our truck and we will
take it to the morg they'll do whatever
they need to do and the body's coming
back to the Village because that's where
they're going to have the funeral and
that's where it's going to the body's
going to be buried and then once we
bring the body back the coffin is
finished then we bring food in because
what happens in in in in Africa is when
somebody dies it'll it'll last about
three or 4 days okay especially in rural
Africa and family will come from the
different Villages and they will stay
there for 3 or 4 days till they have the
funeral and so to it can sometimes be a
burden on the family to try to provide
food you know so we bring food in but
what what is it what's the end game the
end game I mean the end game is that
they know Jesus Christ and so with those
good works gives us an Avenue and it's
just another way you know you think of
ways how do we how do we reach people
just think of multiple layers Oh you
mean you are the guys that preach the
love of Christ on a Sunday morning you
can come and we can sing about the love
of crappy but I want you to know that
you are the guys that actually live it
because don't you drill the water wells
don't you feed orphans down there aren't
you the ones that built that coffin for
that Widow lady who was trying to raise
a grandchild and her grandson got run
over by a
car
so we have campaign teams coming and uh
we booked up a year ahead we've got uh
three three teams already locked in this
summer we'd love to have a team from
here sometime it'd be great and and and
maybe the Scouts in in Rex and Deb can
can come back and get something you know
but but but I do want you to know that
it's it's a blessing to us to have you
guys come and so maybe your bucket list
breaking out of the box whatever however
you want to Define it why don't you come
we'll take care of you we built
ourselves a nice facility there you'll
be taken good care of we're not trying
to rough it because one one thing one of
the philosophies is is that we don't
want you to come and drink dirty water
and have a have no no bed to sleep on
and have no place to take a nice hot
shower and then get sick and so half
your trip is spent trying to recover
that's that's that that's a
waste we want you to come and we want
you be able to utilize every single day
and so you are taken care of yes we'll
go out to the Villages and we'll go out
to the bush but we won't stay there
because that's not what we acclimated to
okay uh this is a special picture
because and I'll I'll uh I'll end you in
just a minute this is a special picture
that young man that has his hands on his
legs years ago when I kids were small
Sherry and I went
to the island of
Antiga and we planted a church there and
this guy was a Rastafarian at the time
and I got to meet him years ago believe
it or not I was playing soccer I got to
meet him and we got became friends and
he cut off his dreadlocks before he was
baptized he's now an elder in the church
and he came from the island of Antiga
and came to zimb we and taught the
preacher there and others the Gospel of
Jesus Christ and although they might you
might think they're both from they're
not they world's apart different
cultures but how God bless us how God
bless us let me just see I'll go one
more those are the teams that are coming
uh from different places England South
Africa Zambia USA Ana Australia that
help us this is our school we had we
have three uh classroom Wings we are
look at that a rural school that has a
science lab you talk about I mean and
you know we can do that because we have
satellite and we uh uh we have our own
power because we have solar panels and
we have all our our own water we
self-sufficient we're not even on the
grid so uh this is our fourth classroom
Wing going up should be close to finish
by the time uh Rex and Deb get there um
and so this is our team um my wife and I
began this uh be 17 years in February
and um you know you it's it's takes both
of us you know it's it's a team effort
and that's what a successful marriage
is um this is our son Lee who came on
board full time with us in
August and his son uh Boston who comes
with him now but he's working with us
full-time and this is our uh the other
co-director uh Haley and his wife nma
and I just want say something about Noma
nma just got her master's degree from us
from um not us from the University of
Cape Town in chemical engineering and
she's just been approved for the
doctoral program so she's going to be
one of our key uh what can I say
instructors professors when we begin our
our
University um and then um my two
grandsons from my daughter we have four
grandchildren but Tristan and I'm going
to close with this
Tristan Dakota is on the left Tristan's
on the right Tristan just graduated from
high school he played football he he was
quite an athlete and he said uh he said
to me he said granddaddy I I I really
don't want to go to school right away I
want to go get a job and work I said
okay so he was good friends with a guy
who said uh who who whose father owned a
brick company and his father got to know
Tristan and said Tristan we'll put you
in our Management program
and Tristan said great so last time I
said Tristan before you start all of
that let's you and I go to Africa and so
we went to three countries we spent two
months together I know this is a
Granddad story I know that but but man
this is just awesome and and when we got
back after two months I thought well you
know he's been with Granddad you know
that's Generations away from me you know
I mean I think you'll be ready to spend
the balance of the time with these
friends well I told him I was going on
to Dominica to to lay plans for the
container and he said I want to go with
you and so came back started his job 3
months into the job and he calls me and
I'm in Africa and he says
Granddad I just want you to know that
everything these this company has said
to me is true they have been good to me
and I'm on this track he said but I have
come
home at night and I thought
what is the purpose of this for
me he says Granddad I want to be a
missionary so so he has enrolled at
Harding and um you know he's he's he's
moving on that track so I just want you
to I just want you to pray for him uh
somebody said to me we're getting on in
years you know Darian do you have a do
you have a if the Lord terries do you
have some plans because you know yes I
got my son and now God has you know got
a grandson going that way so we we're
excited about
it let me just close with
this why go through
Samaria oh oh you know the story John 4
okay woman at the
willo Jacob well gives him water even
says to Jesus when Jesus comes are you
greater than than Jacob who gives water
all the time and
Jesus uh yes I am the
Messiah in fact as am am he you you can
look at that verse the he's not there
italics he says am cuz he's I am that's
who I
am
Jesus coming through
pyo wasn't
geographical that was not the reason he
came to this
earth to share the good news of what he
was all
about and then transferred to his
disciples and is transferred onto us
that that's what it's about so so when
he came through Sao it wasn't
geographical it was
theological
C there was a woman there whose heart
would be receptive even though she's
getting physical water it would she
would be receptive to The Living
Water can I ask you a question who goes
to a well in Asia in Africa in the
Middle East and leaves an empty
bucket there nobody who who leaves their
Nets
and follows this guy
disciples she left her bucket because
there was something far greater now that
had grabbed her heart than this physical
water so I bring that up just to let us
all know now God in his wisdom gives us
a brand new chapter a new
year God can you help me find in my
way uh I mean with my talents and
abilities that woman at the well that
only I could maybe reach in whatever
circumstance position Whatever It Is God
lead me to that person this
year for as many of you as been baptized
into Christ have put on
Christ God I I want to be more like you
so help me to reach out to those who
need to put you on too but let me be
that
tool we're going to sing a song can
motivate you you want prayers or
encouragement whatever let's do it as we
stand and
sing
