so a husband called the Sheriff's Office
to report he wanted to report that his
wife was missing the husband said well
my wife is missing she went shopping
yesterday and hasn't come home yet and
the sheriff uh said well what's her
height the husband said well I'm not
sure she's a little over 5T tall but I
don't know about it after that the
sheriff said well what's your weight
said well I really don't know she's not
slim but she's not fat I don't know
Sheriff said well what's the color of
eyes well they're sort of brown I think
uh never really noticed them that
closely so well what's the color of her
hair well it's changed through the years
so I couldn't tell you what it is right
now maybe Brown I I'm not really sure
well what was she wearing when she left
the house say well uh it could have been
pants maybe a shirt and some shorts I
didn't know exactly what she was wearing
so well what kind of card did she go the
husband says she was in my truck and
Sheriff well what kind of truck was it
well it was a 216 per white Ram limited
4x4 with 6.4 Hemi uh V8 engine with the
ram box bar and fridge LED lighting
backup and front camera Mose hide
leather heated and cool seats climate
control AC custom matching white cover
for the bed weather tech for mats uh
trailer pickup uh gold hitch uh sunroof
DVD with full GPS navigation satellite
radio cobra 75wxst
40 channel CB radio six cup holders
three UB USB ports four battery Outlets
alloy wheels and offroad toy tires Uh
custom retracting running boards
underglow wheels and lighting and as he
finished he was a little bit choked up
and the sheriff says well take it easy
sir we'll find your
truck reporting's kind of like that
sometimes you emphasize the thing you're
more interested in so I hope you forgive
me if that happens today we should value
good reports on God's work as we are
supposed to support his work the Lord is
exalted by good reports it says in 1
Corinthians 3 I planted apollis water
but God remember that God gave the
increase so then neither is he who
plants is anything or is he who Waters
but God who gives the increase now he
who plants and he who waters are one and
each one will receive his own reward
according to his own labor for we are
God's fellow workers you are God's field
you are God's Building I think you get
the emphasis right when you understand
that and the Lord is exalted by that and
the church is encouraged by good reports
acts 15:32 now Judas and Silas it's not
the Judas that betrayed Jesus uh and
Silas themselves being prophets all also
exhorted and strengthened the Brethren
with many words so it's important for
the Brethren to be encouraged by reports
so we're going to get into this trip
like I said there's going to be two
reports today is the positive stuff
tonight is an evil
report and yet I think it will bless you
but it's going to be offline so don't
stay home and expect to see it you will
you want to hear the nitty-gritty you
have to be here here
tonight but if that's not where you want
to be then that's fine too uh this is
what we're talking about today going to
talk about just traveling in general a
little bit but uh specifically uh Amazon
school Christian School partners for
Africa which all of us whether you know
it or not have partnered with and
supported Sunrise Church of Christ
that's now known as kton Park Church of
Christ and the work that we're involved
in there a little bit and then southern
Africa Bible school or Southern Africa
Bible college now and bonon where we
worked back many years ago before we
ever came here show you a few pictures
along the way uh this is when we're
leaving our lovely airport let me tell
you something I've been in several
airports right now other than New York
being a disaster uh our airport is great
okay if you go to New York you'll don't
go there okay so uh this is from that
airport beautiful picture back toward uh
New York uh this is when we arrive in
South Africa that's uh Johannesburg or
oo uh is actually what it's called today
this is when we arrive in bulale that's
a buale
airport uh family picked us up this is
the very first night wonderful
everything's going great everything's on
time perfect we're eating uh eating uh
suda that's always good and uh you
wouldn't know what that is but that's
okay and uh I skip I'm skipping over
some of the things about traveling I
will tell you that I got fris a time or
two it was interesting but uh the
flights were great uh family we went our
plan was to hook up with Dorian Flynn
and Cherry his wife we had everything
was planned it was all going that
direction
and uh what happened uh Dorian couldn't
go uh Sunday the last Sunday I was here
we in fact we changed our schedule u in
fact because we changed our schedule Deb
made a decision that she was willing to
let go of her job to be able to make it
so we could be with Dorian and Sherry
Sherry on Sunday when we left here or
about to leave on Monday y'all remember
we were here and then left on Monday uh
she fell on that Sunday hurt her back
and she's still in pain and as a result
they did not go and so the reason we did
everything the way we did it was so that
we could be with them and they could
work with us there and uh they were not
there so uh Dorian was not there but the
first night we were there we started
getting the uh uh basically the Food
Supplies were being moved over into a
truck they had a huge truck in their
yard they could put thousands of bags in
there and then this is another truck
they're all floating too and then we
also all floated to this van which was a
gift by some here in America to give to
the school that Amazon on Christian
School which is about 50 km South uh of
Buell which is where we were staying so
what I'm trying to get to just at the
outset here if you don't pick up is that
we were humbled by about so many
different things let me tell you
something what we expected is not what
happened and God humbled us on that
level but then the
provisions this was a truly humbling
experience um I I'll show you the
financial situation in
Zimbabwe uh this is a $1,000 Zimbabwe
Bill we get it for like a dollar I think
is it a dollar that's nothing I'm richer
than Trump that's
a 50 million no excuse me5 billion
bill of five b are you picking up that
their finances aren't going really the
right direction these are no good you
can't even use these now so that's gone
I've got a new bill it's called the zig
but that's another's discussion potholes
were everywhere there and they fill them
with dirt that's the solution uh we
stayed with Haley and Noma Mel gany and
they were awesome their kids Colin and
Laura they were great we went to Amazon
Christian school I'll show you some
pictures of that in just a moment where
we talk but I want you to see where the
food was going uh these are Rond dbls
and the people had nothing they had
nothing it had not rained they have no
water so if there's no well nearby
you're in a trouble they get it out of
ditches that aren't clean it is
horrendous they're starving you are
providing food that's that flour
basically pup and some oil and some
beans and that's what we were
Distributing
this man was
blind just still getting stuff out so we
made trips around in the
trucks giving out
food they're in
famine one lady we met had her daughter
had cancer breast cancer but they could
do nothing about it no medication at all
it spread down her arm
now you can see it
one wheelchair I don't think I have that
sorry I want to go back I don't have
that one the wheelchair lady laying in
her rondavel
door and it's so cheerful they had
nothing this is now back to the school
that's uh dorian's wife there they
weren't
there but obviously they've been there
this this is uniforms that to wear out
of Amazon uh this is the assembly that
gathered the day we were there when uh
the uh van was presented to them with
all the food stuff that was in it and uh
they were also there for a sports day
and because they were there and they
were trapped Deb took the girls and I
took the boys and we each taught them
for one
hour why they're W to go out and play
games uh this is at the presentation uh
the men in the uh lter shirt that is the
principal of the school the man of the
darker shirt that's uh hey who was our
host and the younger man to the right
that's Dorian Flynn's um nephew and
uh these are the kids as they're
clapping because the van that's being
driven up that's the
van that's us and that was one of the
guys we ran around with really super
guy this is in the principal's office
his name is
progress you'll want to remember that
and remember this picture for
tonight and this is some of the
buildings that you've helped make
happen that's actually bathrooms and
showers and there is a well about a half
a mile away you couldn't get water off
this land so they literally about a half
mile away crossed the highway and
brought in water to this that's a
kitchen by the way if you didn't know
what that was that's the church building
right there and oh I went past that so
fast let me go back uh this is a uh
tradition uh they come and pour water
over your hands so that you can wash
your hands before you eat we were we
were back to have lunch that's where we
were eating that's actually their church
out there at the
property and uh then the next day they
wanted us to have some fun so these kids
and Deb and I went out to what's called
worldview it's an amazing Place Cecil
John roads to go put all the train
tracks across uh Africa he he's the one
who's buried there with some other
people and you can see these rocks are
up on top of a round rock uh Deb took
this picture because of the lizard do
you see the lizard any right these
lizards were everywhere there were
thousands of them and that's that's
Memorial up there on the top of that big
rock and there's baboons yes and they're
roaming around
and this was the next no that was the
night this was the dvo with the local
teens and uh dorian's uh nephew was one
leading that dvo along with uh
Haley and this was on the Sunday um
after Deb's surgery and I'll tell you
more about Deb tonight uh but this was
where we went to church on that Sunday
after she got well we didn't go to
church the first Sunday because of what
happened with
and so this is the second Sunday and
they had had a ladies retreat thing
where like 200 ladies slept in a tent on
the property of the church and if you
look to your right back in the picture
you might see a piece of the building
and this is where they cook it's outside
um and there's the building in the
background and the lady slept in that
tent there huge number of ladies uh that
Sunday morning when we went to church uh
the guy you know was translated into
English as well and the guy who preached
there I'm going to tell you the straight
up truth best sermon I've ever heard in
my life Isaiah chapter 40 amazing lesson
maybe I'll share some of that sometime
I'll never do as good as he did though
and that was being translated as well
which was amazing that you do it this is
uh the ladies thing this is not the
worship service but it was his it was
Fuller than that for Sunday but that's
just the ladies who had gathered for the
weekend event Deb was able to attend
that believe it or not a week later
she's actually went there uh these are
wells that uh you know about but the new
ones have solar pumps and because
there's no electricity in many of these
places and so this is the older ones
where you actually pumped it but this
was up there where the ladies were
gathered to be able to wash their hands
and get things this is men bringing in
water for their utions and uh they
brought in big cans of water like that
so that they could do that this is the
tent where they slept of course they're
not in there right
then this is uh they had singing groups
that sang I don't know how many there
were Deb says he just kept singing and
singing it was beautiful I had a tape
for you to hear it but uh maybe tonight
it didn't work out this morning uh this
is dudo this is one of the ladies who
lived with us and she went to South
Africa but the same time we did she's
super lady really sweet girl uh this is
just afterward we're having a fellowship
meal on the grounds and back there in
the background is that tent well the
building that where the food was being
served from that's the
kitchen this is the next day after
church this Monday and we went to an
animal park right there within about
five miles of their house and Deb put
her hands on everything it was just
disgusting they were all nasty animals
and she touched everything uh there you
know no I didn't want to touch I didn't
touch him I didn't touch him I fed him
but I didn't touch him Deb's touching it
touching yeah just touching them oh
that's a really super guy that young man
right there we love him but tell you
more about him maybe tonight and lots of
animals there this is downtown buo where
the markets were if you look you'll see
little piles of food along the road
there uh each one of those piles have
been piled up that's $1 you can get into
that any of those piles that's a dollar
you can get anything a
dollar just cheap there we Haven to be
able to go by where Deb lived now this
is her grandparents house that you can't
really see because the fence but that's
where they lived and this is Deb's house
that she was raised in which a little
girl born and raised
there and then we went to the museum
which is in town just for fun that same
day or no that's the next day just
trying to let Deb rest and that museum
is where she's got a moth that she gave
there we took a picture of it but it's
not in this picture but it is an
absolutely great museum it's beautiful
got all these stuffed animals as you
might be able to say and so we took a
couple of pictures there then we went to
a place that's called Hillside Dam it's
beautiful uh in a place where you don't
have that much water there are a few
reservoirs and this is one of them that
people will gather at this is the church
Downtown this is where the imanes
actually go to church this is where we
would have gone to church had all that
happened we didn't actually ever go to
church here we went to the building
several times because things going on
there but we never were there on a
worship service but it's actually a
lovely
building and this is uh friends with the
family uh Co and Co there I was talking
to Coy and uh Nathan here about their
future work and we were talking about
what they might be able to accomplish as
we were getting a little older
now uh this is zabi who was at the house
St with us all the time so we saw a lot
of her Deb's this after Deb's surgery
there uh Deb took this picture cuz she
wanted you to think about the thorn that
that Jesus probably wore these are
Devil's
Thorns This Is Us leaving from uh
Zimbabwe so we actually did leave on the
21st of April we were there as you might
imagine for three weeks because Deb had
to wait to be able to fly you can't have
surgery and fly you got to
away this is now in South Africa we
visited uh the kton Park Church of
Christ as you know that some are
actually Sunday Monday to and we're kind
of overseeing that work uh the most part
of that building that you're seeing
right now is for the school Sun R
Christian School uh that's their sign if
you look kind of to the right that's
more of the church building so to the
right and at the back is more the church
building the rest of it is the school I
did DeVos here every day I did a dvo so
I was in front of a section of the
school they'd break it out to a small
section they have about a hundred
students and then when we took a day off
the Paul and Cherry took a day off with
us and we rode the how train this is
like a bullet train you imagine that did
you know that was there I didn't know
that was there you knew it was there
okay I didn't know but we went down to
men Mandela Square you ever heard of
Mandela yeah that's his uh a big guy
that's the there's actually one next to
it that's little if you can't stand next
to that cuz crowds there's people taking
their picture there all the time and so
this is the house that Deb and I lived
in when we were in South Africa for
those six years going on seven
years uh this is now at bon no excuse me
this is still at Kempton that's Kempton
park that's on a Sunday they were
averaging uh 15 to 20 now let me give
you a background on this this is a
church that had basically uh made the
school the the number one priority and
they had become more and more a Baptist
Church in their Theology and as a result
of that they had instrumental music that
they quit uh baptizing their baptistry
was unused and uh they their services
had just changed and they dwindled down
to about 20 or 30 and then when they
started making the change that dwindled
even more one Sunday while Paul was
visiting here they had six people there
and so now when we were there they were
over 80 so people have have come back
that's heard that they're restoring back
to what we believe and uh they started
coming back there were people apparently
trying to have our own little Services
various places so they're back now uh
that's another picture of Paul just this
is Bible class that's not even worship
so there's actually more people were
there than
that uh this is at the school that I
taught at many years ago this is
Southern Africa Bible school now called
southern Africa Bible College that's a
front gate the buildings in the
background this show you from above to
the right is the buildings that exist
there now uh most of those did not exist
when we were there so they've really
built on uh this is chapel and they had
me speak at Chapel I wasn't planning on
that and this is the Boni congregation
which is close to there that we also
worked with when we were in South Africa
and they had me preach some of y'all
probably listen to that while we were
away again uh What uh this is another
picture of their Courtyard area so
they've got a quite a large building
used to be a large church this is at Bon
this is Sherry that's uh you may
remember Linda kber we used to support
uh Lou and uh
Linda and then there are some friends
some of you may know okay yeah that's
for Keegan and Scott over here uh this
is family so we got to visit family just
in case you think it was all just fun we
actually had to be with
family so that's uh Paul and uh Tim uh
Tim
both of them are younger than us so
that's great and this is a cousin and we
got to be with them and then uh their
son and this is his fiance and they're
about to go through laola and U and
they're about to get married labola is
when you pay for your wife uh this is
everybody gathering outside just before
we left not long before we left and this
was two sweet little girls it was good
to see it there
airport that's pretty much the report
that we'll get into detail if you want
tonight but I wanted you to see we
really did go we weren't kidding we went
and uh we're back let me make about
three little quick points okay can I do
that how should we report on how God
gives us what what should we report
should we report on everything we should
report on how God gives us chances in
Acts 14:27 again it says now when they
had come and gathered the church
together they reported all that God had
done with them and that he that is God
had opened the door of Faith to the
Gentiles don't ever forget who you work
with when you do Church work Colossians
4:3 praying God would open a door to
speak the mysteries of Christ those
opportunities that come God arranged
them we should use them 1 Corinthians
16:9 a great and effective door has been
opened to me God does that so Mission
work taught us and humbled Us in so many
different ways like you're not going to
do what you think you're going to do
you're going to do what I want you to do
and that's great it's a good lesson it's
a good lesson then but to report also on
that God gives us the chances we do have
the chance to speak the chance to make
the trip whatever those are all from God
secondly we should report on how God
gives us conversions Lord willing we'll
have a baptism today and so that comes
from God that's not from us it never is
from us acts 15 goes on to say so being
sent on their way by the church they
passed through Phoenicia and uh Samaria
describing the conversion of the
Gentiles and they cause great joy to all
the Brethren and when they had come to
Jerusalem they were received by the
church and the apostles and the elders
and they reported all things that God
had done with them never forget
conversions are the work of God
not us and then of course acts 16 verse1
14 says the Lord opened the heart to
heed the things spoken and don't ask me
how that happens I don't know I just
know that he does and then 2 Corinthians
5 and verse2 God were pleading through
us be reconciled to God so literally
even when you're speaking for God you
think you're doing it it's actually God
speaking through you pleading to be
reconciled that is all of God and we
should report on how God gives us
conversions not on how we convert or
trans uh figure somebody that doesn't
happen number three we should always
report on how God gives us confirmations
so along the path of whatever God wants
us to travel he confirms the path that
happened so many times in us going on
this trip uh that's a long story within
it of itself of what was happening 6
months before we even made this trip how
God wanted us on this trip acts 15:12
then all the multitude kept silent and
listened to Barnabas and Paul declaring
how many miracles and wonders God had
worked through them among the Gentiles
let me tell you something God is always
at work with his people working among us
we may not pay attention but he is
confirming good works that we do pay
attention God confirms his work Mark 16
20 the Lord working with him and
confirming the word god did that back
then I know but he still does that
Romans 8 and verse 16 teaches that he
confirms that you're a child of God he
will confirm you all along the pathway 1
Corinthians 1 and verse6 says the
testimony of Christ was confirmed in you
if you now believe that Jesus is the
Christ guess what that was confirmed
within you how'd that happen don't ask
me scientific stuff like that I don't
know I'm just telling you that God
confirmed it within your heart that was
his work and so whether it's through
healing or through his favor in his
kindness or a dove on your kitchen table
or the path that he works out ahead of
you Mission work taught us to report on
how God gives us confirmation so what
that means to me is this is summary of
that what that means to me is this
reporting
is all our duty what do I mean by that
what I've really talked about is
witnessing we are to witness to the
world what God is doing and we're all
called to that we're all called to
report not on what we've done brag on us
we're all called every day to report on
what God is doing what God has done what
he's doing in your life what he's doing
in the mission work whatever it doesn't
matter that's our duty to report on what
God has done why because we need to
honor God first and foremost amen so not
only we need to do that we need to
respect the work he's doing wherever it
is whatever he's doing and respect the
spirit that's working in among the
people and you need to also respect the
people that are hazarding their life
listen to acts 15:26 who have risked
their lives for the name of our Lord and
by the way anytime you do Mission work
anywhere you go because it's not here
it's slightly more
risky who would have thought we'd been
in the middle of a surgery right so
here's a couple of thoughts for
you George St was a one-legged school
teacher from Scotland who volunteered to
go to China to do Mission work and he
was there for 20 years someone asked him
why would a onle man choose to go to
China to do Mission work here was his
response I do not see those with two
legs
going so I
must then David livon uh Livingston who
was as you know a Pioneer across Africa
there's even a town named after him in
uh Zambia he walked 29,000 plus
miles and his wife died early in his
mission work
and he had tremendous opposition from
some of his Scottish Brethren back home
but here was his prayer he said this in
his prayer and he said it over and over
again send me
anywhere only go with
me lay any burden on me only sustain
me sever any ties but the tie that binds
me to your service and to your heart
what a prayer eh that's a hard one to
think can pray and then James calber he
was a missionary to the cannibals of
Fiji and when his ship captain was about
to drop him off he tried to convince him
not to go he said you will lose your
life and the lives of those with you if
you go among such Savages
now Calbert replied we died before we
came
here whoa
and then in 1956 you might remember
January 1956 Jim Elliot and four others
so five young men tried to reach the Aku
uh Indians of
Ecuador they had set up camp and were
immediately attacked and they didn't
defend themselves and all five of them
were killed but that news flashed around
the world and because of that in the 60s
maybe you don't remember it but I do in
the 1960s it wasn't just the Church of
Christ that had more missionaries we had
we went from 200 to over 800 in within
like a month or two it just happened it
just blew up maybe people willing
to be harmed Inspire those who've not
been willing to do such things it did in
the church and it did it across all
denominational lines so from
Honduras to Africa Amica we support a
lot of good works and we should be a
part of it money is always needed but
more than that those willing to go and
help are needed but let me tell you
something when you get through with all
of that none of the money and none of
the people
working do it or should do it for Glory
except for the glory of the father this
is God's work and the question is are
you willing to give up anything for
Jesus are you willing to we may be
having a baptism this morning that has
nothing to do with anything I've talked
this morning
basically but there might be
someone that may have thought maybe I
need to be a part of God's
work and maybe you decided to do that if
you need to rededicate yourself to that
or you need to repent of your sins
confess the name of Christ and be
baptized yourself in the name of Jesus
Christ for the remission of your sins
the invitation is yours w't you come if
you need to while we stand and while we
sing
