now I don't know about you but I have
discovered something I have in parenting
you bet you haven't discovered this but
I have discovered
that giving advice to your kids is not
always
welcome is that a
shocker has anybody else discovered
that so I mean especially as they get
older especially as they're grown
and I think as parents we think we're
obligated to give advice to our children
so how do you give advice to your
children without offending them it's a
good question isn't it Harry Truman
President Harry Truman has the answer to
this it's brilliant I think I've never
heard anything smarter than this so go
back read it if you don't believe it he
said the best way to give advice to
anybody but spefic specifically the best
way to give advice to your uh children
or your young adults is to find out what
they want to do and advise them to do
that and you they don't get upset about
that they don't get mad at you nothing
so Paul David trip which is the author
of that book he said this and it's kind
of the premise of what I'm going to be
teaching tonight God never calls you to
a task without giving you what you need
to do it he never sends you anywhere
without going with you I think that's
true and I think it speaks volumes to
what we're talking about tonight God
never calls you to a task without giving
you what you need to do it so I want to
run through a few things about Grace
that I think you need to hear and kind
of process and I'll show you the
scriptures on each of these God's grace
never calls people to be parents or
anything else because they are already
able Luke
22:32 when you have returned to me is
what said to Peter he wasn't ready
yet he had to get ready God's grace
never calls you to parent or do anything
else for the Lord without giving you
what you need to do it two good examples
of this is Matthew 14 Jesus is Walking
On Water Peter says can I come to you
and he says come and he starts walking
to him the reason he was able to do it
he wasn't able to walk on the water
you're not able to walk on water or heal
anybody or do any Miracles but when he
tells you to do something he never
commands you to do anything he doesn't
enable you to do for example example in
Mark chap 3 1-5 there's a man in the
synagogue with a withered hand now if
you've got a withered hand you've
probably had a stroke you're not raising
that hand and what he tells him to do is
stretch out your hand that's the very
thing he couldn't do but as he attempted
to do it God enabled him so it's not
about you were already equipped and
ready to be a parent God enables you to
be a good parent under the grace of God
God's grace is with you in your work of
parenting you need to recognize that he
is not going to abandon you John 14:18 I
will not leave you orphans I will come
to you you are not going to do this
alone God will be with you and God's
grace never regrets making you a parent
now you may regret being a parent but
God's grace never regrets making you a
parent Romans 11:29 says for the gifts
and being a parent is a gift according
to Psalm 127 for the gifts and the
callings of God are without repentance
that means if God grants you a gift he's
not sorry that he gave it to you he's
not going to repent that he did it and
God's grace opens your eyes to your
parental faults your parental limits
that you see in
them what does that
mean God God's grace opens your eyes to
your parental faults that you see in
your children Matthew 18:33 it says this
you should not also have had compassion
on your fellow servants just as I had
pity on you since we know that God has
saved us by his grace and he had pity on
us when we see and you will your faults
in your children you will acons don't
fall that far from the tree when you see
them in your children understand it was
God's grace that saved you so be careful
how you deal with that because it's just
your faults all over again and God's
grace frees you from denying your sin
and parenting weaknesses that you have
in 1 Corinthians 15:9 and10 this is Paul
he says for I am the least of the
apostles who not worthy to be called an
apostle because I persecuted the Church
of God that's my past I did that verse
10 but by the grace of God by the grace
of God I am what I am and his grace
toward me was not in vain but I labored
more abundantly than they all yet not I
but the grace of God which was in me
sometimes you need to recognize that
denying your sin makes you
weaker as a parent or anything else but
when you accept that youve done wrong
and you sin and you're not afraid to
share that with your children for
whatever reason that seems to compel you
to do much better and that would be good
to do better God's grace rescues you
from your parenting failures Romans 7:
24 and 25 says this oh Wretched Man that
I am that can be said by every one of us
unless you're so full of yourself you
can't admit that you're a sinner oh
Wretched Man that I am am who will
deliver me from this body of death I
thank God through Jesus so then with the
mind I myself serve the law of God but
with the flesh the law of sin so God's
grace God's grace Rescues Me And You
from my parenting
failes and we all have them and God's
grace changes you as a
parent you didn't change by yourself we
are laborers together with God I'm going
to be pointing that out next week Lord
willing Galatians chap 1 verse 23 he who
formerly persecuted now preaches the
faith he once tried to destroy God
changes us he didn't change himself God
changed Paul and God's grace makes your
parenting heart more tender and maybe
you haven't noticed it but I think you
know you talk about becoming a
Sentimental old fool I think the truth
is is that as you get a little older you
realize some of your hot dog attitude
was just
meanness and you hadn't learned to
control it
yet and so it makes your parenting heart
more tender Ephesians chapter 4: 31 and
32 it says let all bitterness wrath
anger clamor and evil speaking be put
away from you and be kind to one another
tenderhearted forgiving one another just
as God in Christ forgave you so the more
we're exposed to the tender heart of God
the more likely we'll be
tenderhearted God's grace also liberates
you from your parental regrets to use
your parental regrets to save your
children now you need to hear that one
if you didn't get it let me say it again
God's grace liberates you from your
parental
regrets to use your failes
to save your children 1 Timothy chapter
1 verse 16 for this reason I obtained
Mercy that in me first Jesus Christ
might show all longsuffering as a
pattern to those who are going to
believe on him for everlasting life so
if it's true for Paul it's true for us
the fact that we've been saved from
terrible things we've done or
foolishness or whatever it was or just
being negligent
that story to your children who the ACR
doesn't fall that far from the tree when
they hear that from you if you're
willing to be vulnerable then they are
encouraged well if Mom did it if Dad did
it then maybe I can do it
too Bill Gaither Dale Oldham and Gloria
Gaither back in
1968 got together and wrote I believe in
a Hill Called Mount Calvary you probably
have heard that song I believe whatever
the cost I love all of that but there's
the second verse goes I believe that the
Christ who was slain on the cross has
the power to change lives today why do I
believe that for he changed me
completely a new life is mine that is
why by the cross I will stay if you have
been changed and I believe you all have
been you recognize it really wasn't you
You Know It And since Grace principles
change us
all it's no surprise that Grace
parenting is what we need so we want to
look at four truths from the text that
was read a moment ago that should help
you establish some Grace principles in
your parenting and I think that they are
helpful let's walk through those number
one parenting Grace reveals our
weaknesses
and humbles
us one of the great Graces that we're
seeing here in this text is Paul aware
of something he couldn't stop
doing I don't know what it was it was a
thorn in the flesh and it made him feel
really
bad sounds like a sin to me it's what it
sounds
like he says lest I should be exalted
above measure by the abundance of
Revelation
God has blessed me with so many things a
thorn in the flesh was given to me a
messenger of Satan to Buffet me lest I
be exalted above
measure it may not feel like it's
true but we all struggle with
pride you may think that you
don't that probably means you are worse
than the average
person we all struggle with pride and as
parent we all knew how to
parent until we became
one do you remember that you remember
watching other people messing with their
kids well I know what I'd do with that
when I just I'd get a hold of that one
I'd fix that one boy give me give me
five minutes with that kid I'll have
talking right you know don't look at me
like you never done that I mean can you
believe what they're doing over there
getting your car why didn't you see what
they were doing over there I can't
believe believe they didn't do anything
right give me just five minutes here's
the thing we all knew how to parent
until we became one or the second one or
the third one at some point if you keep
having them you go oh my goodness I
don't know anything about
parenting if if you still think you do
you just didn't have enough
yet Grace
parenting Grace parents are humbled by
their
weaknesses and I think if they recognize
that they're able to extend more
grace which is what we all
need the second little
truth parenting Grace reveals our
weaknesses and draws us to God it says
concerning this thing I plead with the
Lord for whatever reason the one good
thing that came out of his Thorn is he
prayed a lot about
it have you noticed that if you got a
problem at least you pray if you don't
have any problems done you while you
probably won't even pray tonight you
probably go to bed and you will not even
say a prayer tonight if everything's
going so perfect for you right now and
You' got no issues or you don't know
anybody that has any issues you're
liable to drop off to sleep tonight and
not pray about anything have you noticed
that your problems get on the
list have you noticed that you pray have
you noticed that it draws you to God
interesting right says concerning this
thing I pleaded with the Lord three
times that it might depart from me three
three times that's it he prayed three
times about a serious problem I'm like
man I I prayed 30,000 I think on some
things I mean it's just over and over
and over again
right here's the truth we all could do
it
ourself we could all do it
ourself till one day we had to ask God
for help with that
child and has always been a child yeah
ask help with don't know what to do that
happen to you yet it will Don't Know
What to Do Lord so Grace parents are
drawn to God by an inability to fix this
thing and they have to lean on him have
no idea how to fix it no
idea number
three parenting Grace reveals our
weaknesses and empowers
us that's right literally makes us
stronger that's what happens in to Paul
here 2 Corinthians 12:9 and he said to
me this is what God Said directly to
Paul we don't have a record of this
except for Paul telling us here my grace
is sufficient for you for my strength is
made perfect in weakness that is such a
great Revelation I wish we'd had the
instance when that happened what all
went down but this is what we got so
this is one of those Revelations that
the lord gave to Paul
and this is his Revelation my grace is
sufficient for you that's a good lesson
for us all don't you think don't you
need to recognize that his grace is
sufficient for whatever problems You've
Got Tonight wouldn't that be a good
thing for you to just accept and rely on
and then he says for my strength in
other words if you really want to see
how powerful I am my strength is made
perfect in weakness so the more weak you
are the more I can display my strength
so if you really want to see God do
something
fail be
weak let things go wrong get
sick yeah get close to
death now we were all strong parents
have you
noticed we were all strong parents until
we couldn't
parent and we had no idea what to do
we we we were strong parents go to
church my kids are all here they're in
Sunday school and until
suddenly I don't know what to do with
Bobby Joe or Billy Sue I I don't have
any idea what to do I've already talked
to I've talked talked and talked I'm
said I show them scripture I I I prayed
for him I don't know what to do right
yeah so you
don't had no idea well actually did cuz
you did pray
Grace parents are empowered by God's
grace making them stronger spiritually
when you are weak like that and you will
be if you have very many kids you will
be then rely on his power quit relying
on yours it's like the advice I give to
wives if you want to convert your
husband you need to listen to Peter
Peter said you convert them by your
Chase uh Behavior not your conversation
so hush you want to convert your W
husband because husbands resist being
converted okay by their wives because
men don't like to be told what to do
have y'all picked up on that ladies that
you haven't they haven't picked up on
that not yet now men don't like to be
told what to do you're going to be in
trouble men don't like to be told what
to do you be lucky if you make it home
tonight that's like you more I don't
know brother that's so I'm not I'm not
getting in that car with you tonight I'm
sorry so I mean seriously though I you
just you have to recognize that if you
want to win a
man you do it with other
men so you make get get other good
Christians around him in good Christian
environments and they will reach out to
him and that that will impact him far
more than your preaching your preaching
will only turn him
off that's because that's I just are one
and I'm just telling
you that's true for me I'm just that
hard at
it so but my point though is on
parenting the same thing
goes um when you start trusting God to
do it his way you become more powerful
you feel weaker and you
should but you become more powerful
number
next parenting Grace reveals our
weaknesses and gladdens US literally
makes us happy in verse 10 he goes on to
say therefore I take pleasure I actually
enjoy this I'm thinking about what he's
saying here I take pleasure in
infirmities that's quite a statement in
reproaches when somebody says something
ugly to me in needs when I I don't have
enough uh in persecutions when
somebody's running around trying to find
fault with me in distresses when things
are going wrong or maybe I'm on a street
and somebody's about to rob me for
Christ's sake for when I am weak then I
am strong it it makes you
happy I know that may sound strange but
it really does we are all saddened by
our
weaknesses until we see how God's grace
is at work in our our
children when you actually
see the grace of God working in your
child
yeah when they um first thing Jesus
Loves
Me are they lead a prayer at the table
or they can't wait to go to Sunday
school or or when they won't date a
non-Christian or they want to study the
Bible with their friend as a
teenager we're all saddened by our
weaknesses until we see God's grace at
work in
them and it was our weaknesses that made
that
possible so Grace parents are gladdened
by God's power
manifested in our ch child's life and it
really does work that way all right so
this is a lesson simple
lesson Gospel of principles for
parenting are simple they're basically
parenting Grace reveals our weaknesses
and it humbles us it draws us to God it
empowers us and it gladdens us but I got
to tell you the truth and that no matter
how you do it no matter how you talk
about parenting no matter how many books
you read or study on this subject
parenting is never
easy from the moment of H trying to have
a child ladies y'all know what the job
it is to have a child it's not easy
almost kills mom for a child to be
born Barbara weisser from
Illinois uh told of a conversation she
had with their
six-year-old girl I think her name was
Abby she starts the conversation Abby 6
years old starts the conversation mom
there are five things I want to be when
I grow
up she's 6 years old say oh yeah what
are they she
says I'm going to be a
model I'm going to be a movie
star I'm going to be a traveler and
travel all around the
world I'm going to be an artist and I'm
going to be a singer
and so the mom says well what about a
mom what about being a mom she says I
don't know I think that's too hard for
me and later that same day Abby remarked
you know Mom she's six Mom it's just too
bad that you didn't get to become
anybody when you grew
up and Mom says but I am
somebody I'm your mom if I weren't a mom
then you wouldn't be here right now
dreaming of what you want to be
someday parenting is hard they'll step
all over your feet and they'll step all
over your
heart parenting is hard Grace parenting
may even be harder because you want to
tell them
but that's not the way Grace really
works plus the fact that they don't want
to hear
it but it's most needed by your children
and ultimately it's the most rewarding
thing you can do because you're trying
to do it God's way you're trying to do
it in a gospel centered way you're
trying to be a parent that literally
shows Grace to all trip goes on to say
this there is nothing more important to
consistent faithful patient loving and
effective parenting than to understand
the grace God has given to you in Jesus
in other words until you fully get a
grip on what God has done for you in
Christ Jesus then you will never display
that to them it will be a legalistic
system in your household it will be
rules and that's all they'll get and
they're liable to leave home and never
want to come back home and see mom or
dad the truth is they must receive the
grace of God so they need to start with
an awareness of the grace of God that's
been given to you as a parent you need
to express it you need to display it
they need to hear it what if here's a
message for you all listen to this
question think on it pray about it
because this is the whole lesson that
we've just seen right what if God gave
you
children to Humble you
what if God gave you children to Humble
you to draw you to
God what if God gave you children to
Humble you to draw you to God to pray
about stuff that you have no idea about
how to fix what if God gave you children
to Humble you to draw you to God to
empower you in your
weakness what if God gave you children
to Humble you to draw you to God to
empower you in your
weakness that you would be
glad that they finally understood the
grace of God because they saw it working
in your life and they heard it in your
voice and they
knew were not for the grace of
God I'm
done I'm done
and so are
you so if you're here tonight and you
haven't come to accept the grace of God
in Christ Jesus you haven't received the
fact that only through the cross can you
be saved you haven't understood that he
was the blood atonement for you if
you're finally recognizing that that's
what happened then you need to repent of
your sins change your heart that's what
that means change your heart make Jesus
Lord of your life come confessing that
and we'll baptize you if you'll confess
that in front of men we'll baptize you
in the name of the father Son and the
Holy Spirit and you'll be forgiven grace
of God will cover no matter what you've
done won't you come if you need to while
we stand and say
