uh Paul David trip his theme statement
for this particular lesson this number
14 is uh it is only rest in God's
presence and Grace that will make you a
joyful and patient
parent that's all that it will do and I
think um that's something we all need if
we're going to be parents we need to
find a way to be a joyful
parent and a patient parent I don't know
about you but I've struggled with both
of
those and um so I think this is a worthy
discussion he goes on to give eight
suggestions because he says parents are
often literally worn out and stressed
out and need to find rest and accept
some encouragement so here's some of the
things he says that you need to realize
that you will not be punished for your
failure if you're trying to do the right
thing God isn't up there wanting to
condemn you for trying to do the right
thing by your
children and you are welcomed by grace
to New Beginnings so even if things
haven't gone
right the grace of God is still good and
you can start over and be a help to
others if you've raised ra yours already
and you're not left to your own limited
resources if you're in the middle of
parenting God has power and resources
available to you God's blesses you with
the right here and right now wisdom of
his word so this is a resource you've
got it's a tool you may not look at it
as a tool for parenting but it is and
then you do not have to load the burden
of your Children's Welfare on your
shoulders every morning at some point
your children sit on their own
bottom they sit on their own bottom and
you need to understand that at some
point you're really not responsible
anymore and you don't need to try to
Bear the responsibility of it always I
know that's harder for some than it is
for others and God will never close his
ears to your cries for help so you've
always got prayer you can always turn to
God even if your kid 60 years old you
can pray for them and then weakness is
not a curse it is a
blessing that you aren't able to do this
and make your children become what you
want them to be you need to accept it
and realize that's actually a blessing
because if you could make it happen and
you didn't make it happen you're now
responsible but if it's their choices
you're not really as responsible as you
think you are on that and then success
is about faithfulness not results and I
think that's true in everything don't
you think we're talking about evangelism
it's about faithfulness not results we'd
like to say that oh well we got to be
successful but I think those are some
good rules and you're going to see how
that applies as we walk our way through
this a little clearer if parents are
troubled if parents are stressed and if
they have no rest something's wrong in
what we're
doing we're doing something wrong it's
not supposed to be that way the wicked
have no rest Isaiah 57:20 says the
wicked are like the troubl sea and it
cannot
rest
Hypocrites they have no rest and they
shouldn't Matthew 23:4 says they bind
heavy burdens and hard to bear and lay
them on men's shoulders but they don't
lift them up the unclean have no rest
Luke 11:24 says an unclean Spirit when
it goes out of a man it goes through Dry
places seeking rest and finds
none so the one thing the unclean
spirits the demons are wanting more than
anything else is rest and they don't get
any so we're not supposed to be like
that that's not supposed to be who we
are you should be able to sleep at
night I'm not talking about because you
got ailments if you got ailments that's
a different thing but you should be able
to sleep at night not because you're
burdened by worry all the time it's not
supposed to be like that as a Christian
uh it is not God's righteous will that
righteous gospel parents have no rest
rest that's not his will let me give you
a few examples of where we're supposed
to have rest the returning are supposed
to have rest that means if you've
wandered away the very moment you turn
to go home if you will or go back to God
should fill you with rest it says in
Jeremiah this is of the whole country
Jeremiah 31: 23 beginning it says thus
the Lord when I bring back their
captivity they'll say I have satiated
the weary Soul literally the weary soul
will finally have rest because he's
turned back he knows he's turned back
just the knowledge of knowing you're
turning yourself back to the Lord gives
you rest disciples have rest Matthew 11
Jesus said to his disciples come to me
all you who labor and are heavy ladened
and I will give you rest so you're
supposed to have rest right you've come
to Jesus You're supposed to have rest
take my yoke upon you that mean there's
not things to do a yoke is a a burden
take my yoke upon you and learn from me
for I am gentle and lowly in heart and
you will find rest for your souls so you
are not supposed to as a Christian be
restless the saved have rest Hebrews 4:9
says there remains therefore a rest for
the people of God now that's what we
singing about a while ago because that
makes reference not just to now but to
the next world where we experience the
rest that God's entered into in 2
Thessalonians 1: 6 and 7 it says it this
way since it is a righteous thing with
God to repay with tribulation those who
trouble you now the people who give you
trouble maybe they shouldn't have any
rest but verse 7 says and to give you
who are troubled rest with us when the
Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with
his mighty angels you need to relax in
what God's doing in your
life so our greatest parenting passage
is not maybe the passage you would
expect for this I think this is
interesting this is not my doing this is
strictly from uh Paul David trip since
He suggests and I believe he's right
that this is the most important
commission that a parent
has that is your most important it's not
about making them
successful it's about making them
disciples it's not about making your
kids
successful it's about making them it's
not about making them straight A
students it's about making them
disciples it's not about making them
where everybody thinks they're the bees
knees and popular it's about making
making them disciples it's not about
your kid being the smartest kid in the
room that has the little sticker on the
back window I'm proud of my
kid it's about making them disciples I I
just hadn't thought about it quite that
way but I really believe he's absolutely
right about that 100% parents are
commissioned to obey Jesus and there's
three rest principles found in this
little teaching that was read a moment
ago
as his disciple apprentices uh then we
should be doing the big thing which is
this this is the big thing we're looking
at now so number
one parents Rest by
praising Christ mission to their
children to encourage their children's
discipleship so it's not so much about
forcing them to become a disciple it's
about preaching this truth in such a way
that it Praises what Christ was all
about and encourages them to want to
follow suit with you it says go
therefore and Make Disciples of all
Nations baptizing them in the name of
the father and of the Son and the Holy
Spirit so what is the most important
thing to do as a teacher trying to get
your children to bite
into the mission of Christ and to want
to be a disciple what's the most
important thing you can do here it
is attend every church service
yourself well that was fancy wasn't
it you want to make your kids Disciples
of Christ be
one ATT end every church service you can
and read your Bible
daily not force them to listen you just
do it read your I'm not saying you got
to read 12 chapters but pick up your
Bible or your phone and read a portion
of the scriptures every day and pray yes
pray with your family pray for your
family but whether you do that every day
is not as important as you pray every
day why am I saying you can't teach what
you ain't
got you want someone to become a
disciple be
one and the idea that you're a disciple
and you don't
attend and you don't read your Bible and
you don't
pray I don't know what that is but
that's not a
disciple okay it's certainly not an
apprentice trying to learn the art of
Being
Christ which is what a disciple really
is so parents if you do this I this is
going to sound maybe silly to some of
you but if you as a parent praise
Christ's Mission before your children
and you trying to convince him to become
a disciple by praising it the best way
you praise it is you go to church church
and you take them with you and then you
read your Bible and you let them know
you do and then you pray and they see it
and they hear it and as that
happens they're probably going to bite
into it because believe it or not they
actually love
you they really do and they actually
think you're pretty good pretty good
stuff they don't think you're
bad they actually do love you you even
if they say ugly things to you number
next and and by the way and what what
I'm trying to say is isn't that
simple you should be able to rest in
that if you're going to church every
time the doors
open once you start doing that it's not
really hard to do
it it's not a burden amen it's not a
burden if if you're reading your Bible
every day might be hard to develop that
habit once you're doing it that's easy
it's actually fun and then if you're
praying every chance you
get that's not a
burden and then all you're doing after
that is just saying good things about
Jesus in front of your kids this is not
hard you ought to
relax you just accomplish the most
important thing a parent can
do think about that just a second you
have just a w relax God will do the rest
of
it number
two is that his parents Rest by praising
Christ's message to their children to
encourage their children's development
now what you're seeing here is so it
isn't so much preaching it down their
throat as praising it upward saying
positive things about what you know to
be true about what Christ has done and
about what his message was that has
meant so much to you that's the reason
it says in verse 20 teaching them to
observe all things that I've commanded
you so how do you teach them well I mean
obviously you do it with your words sure
obviously you need to say things that
reflect the message of Jesus absolutely
there's a lot to teach there you got the
whole book of the New Testament
basically but especially Matthew Mark
Luke and John right so you got that but
what else well here it
is if you as a parent I'm going to get
real complicated here if you as a parent
attend every church
service and you read your Bible daily
and you pray with your family you only
got one more thing to do and that is
Live Like
Jesus you do
it if you want to teach all the things
Jesus
teaches the way you best teach that is
do
it the best lesson that you will best
sermon you will ever hear is not
something said up here it's when you see
somebody do
it that's hard to argue with when your
mother and your father are doing it they
don't lie they don't cheat they don't
steal they don't break the law they do
the right thing they do the right thing
even though it might hurt
them just do the right thing live for
Jesus live like Jesus lived caring for
other people you see somebody hurting
step in and try to help them that's
parenting
101 right there and if we do that that
is doing more to teach than any lesson
you could set them down I love this you
you want to be a Bible class teacher I
think that's great and I do think that
will help you want to be a Bible class
teacher and you be the Bible class
teacher your children are in yes I
believe that will help but I also think
it'll help if you're a Bible class
teacher for where your kids
aren't I think it'd be good if you're
involved in other things you don't have
to be hovering over your kid just be
doing it living it as you're living it
it'll make a huge impact upon your
children they have a hard
time ignoring what you are that's the
reason don't do like I do do like I they
do doesn't
work number
next parents rest and and you can
already see it right look how simple
this
is look how simple this is you ought to
be able to relax every person in here
ought already be doing all of this stuff
even if you're not a
parent you ought to be you ought to have
this down so easy that this should be
nothing nothing to you you ought to be
able to put your head on the pillow
tonight I've done the most important
things I can do for my children There It
Is I've already done it I'm not sitting
around going oh I could have done this I
could no I'm already doing it so
parenting number three parents Rest by
praising Christ's maintenance to their
children to encourage their children's
dependency one of the things that will
happen is that
problems will come
up there's not a family in here that
doesn't have problems right
now but there's not a family in here who
hadn't had worse problems than they got
right
now so when those problems come up when
you don't have enough money to get to
the end of the
month when it's hard to just figure out
how to talk to this person you've got to
talk
when you're running into a difficulty at
work and you've been accused of
something that you didn't do at work
imagine that or whatever your problem is
that's risking your whole income right
what do you
do you need to praise Christ's
maintenance God is good all the time and
all the time
just say it it's going it's okay how we
going to make it we're going to make it
how do you know cuz God's never let me
down amen God's never let me down it's
there's been some times when uh I don't
how I had no idea nothing I got
nothing I've seen time when we had I
remember when we had two cans of food in
our cupboard for a week
that's all we had we didn't have any
money we had two cans of food in our
cupboard for a week for a
week we did not eat those cans and we
ate every
day we were people took us out to
eat and fed us and then right at the end
of the week I believe that was the week
my folks came through and gave us 100
bucks out of the blue they didn't know
anything
there I've seen money fall out of the
mail have you seen just money fall out
of the mail I'm like
what how did they know right they didn't
know no you got to praise Christ's
maintenance he's promised in this verse
Matthew 28:20 and lo I Am With You
Always even to the End of the Age amen
and he is so
if I'm going to be the parent who
parents in such a way that I respect the
rest
principle then here are the things I
must do I'm adding something now right
added a little bit all along attend
every church service that's number
one number
two read your Bible every
day not necessarily to you kid just read
your Bible every day
number three pray every day hopefully
pray with your family but pray every day
now you've already heard all those then
I just added Live Like Jesus right I got
one more thing to
add trust him for
everything don't
worry you're not supposed to stress
about these things you're supposed to
believe God will come through for you
amen you need to believe God will come
has he not yet how in the world did you
get here there's been how many
emergencies how many times have you had
an emerc what are we going to do what
are we going to do we're overd drown at
the bank what are we going to do they've
cut our lights off what are we going to
do have you been in any of those and let
look where you are somehow some way God
got you through I'm thinking he knows
how to feed the
sparrow I'm thinking that even the the
grass that's here today and gone
tomorrow looks beautiful he takes care
of
that I think he knows how to take care
of you now if you just think about what
I've just said now what you should rest
in if if you're going to church every
time this door opens and if you're
reading your Bible every day and if
you're praying every day and you're
doing your best to live like Jesus and
you're trusting God for everything even
if you never say one word to your child
about what they ought to do they
know they already
know you don't have to shove it down
their throat with a long handles spoon
you don't have to do that they know now
they may not do but they
know and you know what you're not
responsible for making them do you're
responsible for them knowing and
understanding and you should be praising
it in such a way that they start
thinking you know what that is a great
way to
live so that's pretty much the lesson
tonight
um so praising the mission of Christ to
your children to encourage their
discipleship because they need to be
baptized Believers before they leave
your home praising Christ's message to
your children to encourage their
development because they too need to
start doing the things that Christ asked
them to do and then praising Christ's
maintenance to your children to
encourage them to also be dependent
because they're going to step out of
your door one
day and then they're going to find out
life's
hard they lived in that little
incubator you took care of them they
didn't know what it was they flipped the
light switch on and walked off they
didn't know somebody actually had to pay
that
bill they didn't
care just go to the bank and get more
money out never remember I I never
forget uh Emily one time said to me
she's a little bitty thing said can we
do whatever it was she wanted to be us
to do and I said no sweetheart we don't
have the money for that right now and
she said yeah we do I said no we don't
she said just go to the bank stick that
card in there and get money out I said
baby that's not the way that works got
to put the money in first and she's like
why would you do
that and they're going to they're going
to find out just what you know life's
hard and we live under a curse and
things are tough and it's not easy and
uh they don't know how hard it is they
think they've had it hard because
because of the you know it is difficult
being a teenager it is and it is hard in
the world we live in but it's not the
same
hard it's a different hard just like
being a a young married is is hard but
it's not the same hard as being a
middle-aged person and being a
middle-aged person is hard but it ain't
the same thing as being an older member
that each one of them is hard and uh
they're hard in their own way so don't
think other people have it easy and you
have it hard that's not true but don't
be restless you know you know who's
Restless the devil's Restless job 1:7
God asked him where you been he says
well I've been going to and fro on the
earth and from walking back and forth on
it that's
Restless don't be
restless don't be the parent that says
if rest is for the weak then I must be
the strongest parent on Earth don't
don't be that the rest principle is this
it if you do what we're saying and and
make discipleship of your children the
thing it'll take enormous pressure off
that you're putting on yourself and
it'll allow you to rest and help you be
calmer it'll probably lower your blood
pressure uh it'll make you a more
effective praiser of Jesus Christ
because you'll be more calm you'll be
it'll be easier to be patient patient
with your children if you understand
what your really job is is what we're
talking about now and then if you're
doing that relax say well what if it
doesn't
work it works but even if it doesn't
you've been faithful remember what we
said at the beginning it's not about
being a success it's about being
faithful you know in case of a Jet Plane
decompression y'all all been on the
planes right everybody's flown and they
saying okay of decompression you know
this thing will drop out of the ceiling
right and they say you put it on your
mouth and you pull that strap back
around looks like a Dixie cup or
something you know that you put over
right so it doesn't look like it's
effective quite honestly but anyway
that's that's what it is and it's
supposed to have its own oxygen and that
kind of thing and what do they teach you
to do if you're sitting with a child you
put it on
yourself first not on your child I know
that the the instinct is a mom let me
help you yeah let me help my that's the
wrong thing to
do first put the thing on you then help
your child well what if my child passes
out well you'll put it on and they'll
start breathing again okay but if you
pass out you both
die this is a a truth that's so
important for us all all the time take
oxygen for yourself
first before you try to look after
somebody else what does that mean in
light of this be an apprentice disciple
first be the person you need to be first
stick to it yourself fix yourself don't
try to fix your kids fix
you according to a Greek legend uh in
ancient Athens a man noticed the great
story teller teller asop and asop was
playing with some little bitty boys and
he's playing children's games and he's
having fun and he's playing with these
kids and this intellectual laughed at
him and Jered at asop and asked him why
in the world are you wasting time
playing such childish and frivolous
games with those little bitty boys what
kind of activity is that for supposed
intellectual and
responded by picking up a
bow you know bow and air he picked up a
bow and he took the string off the bow
and he laid it
down and he
said Tell me the meaning of the parable
of the unstring
bow and the elite intellectuals said I
don't know what you mean by
that and he said this if you keep a bow
always bent the string will
stretch and the bow will eventually get
stiff and break but if you let it go
slack it'll be more fit for much longer
so when you want it and when you need it
it'll
work one man challenged another man to
do uh a wood chopping
contest and they said uh the
Challenger who was a bigger man figured
everybody thought he'd
win and so they started and the
Challenger the one that had challenged
the other
fella started chopping away and it
looked like he was working harder than
the other one and he took a brief lunch
break and the other guy took a leisurely
break he took several breaks actually
more breaks the only the the guy that
looked like he was going to win only
took a lunch break the other guy took
several breaks through the day and at
the end of the day this Challenger was
shocked when this other guy actually cut
more
wood and so the loser said I don't get
it every time I checked you were taking
another
rest and yet you chopped more more would
than I did how is that possible the
winning Woodsman said this but you
didn't notice that I was also sharpening
my axe every time I sat down to
rest you need time to sharpen your acte
you need to do things for you and one of
the best things you can do for you is
quit trying to do everything for your
child quit trying try to be everything
to your
child let them be who they
are and lead them to Christ and
relax got will take care of the other
things and by the way they don't want
your opinion about everything when
they're little or when they're big they
don't want to hear everything you got to
say about it relax maybe the rest
principle that we're talking about
tonight is the most important principle
I've even taught in this whole series
maybe it's the one one thing you needed
more than anything else maybe it's time
that you quit trying to figure out how
you're going to figure out everything
and start trusting God a little bit
maybe what you need to learn to do is go
to church every time the doors open
maybe what you need to learn to do is
not just go to church every time the
doors open but read your Bible every day
maybe what you need to learn to do is
pray every day maybe what you need to
learn to do is learn to live like Jesus
be a true apprentice and a disciple of
Jesus maybe what you need to learn to do
is relax and actually trust if you do it
his way it'll work out and if it doesn't
you've done all you can do anyway and
maybe you'd rest and maybe the most
important lesson that a parent can
learn is to
rest rest by trusting him sticking to
the most important work and not fretting
over the
results maybe that's
wrong maybe we think we're smarter than
God maybe we think we can do something
that God can't
do and that is God won't make people be
Christians all of this is a choice and
if he's that kind of
parent maybe we need to be the same kind
of parent I think that this works for
everybody if making baptized faithful
disciples is not a parents goal what is
a parent
goal there's a question for you
Christians all you Christians if making
sure your children are not baptized
disciples is not your number one goal
what is your
goal
money what is
it but if you put first things
first and your children end up baptized
believe
Believers and they end up trusting God
when you're not
around and they praise
him then maybe they'll raise their
kids to be
disciples and then maybe their
children long after you're
gone will do the same
thing because they just went to
church and they just read their
Bible and they just
prayed and they tried to live like
Jesus and they
distrusted and what would you guess but
our great great great grandchildren or
whenever the Lord comes would still be
following the
Lord that are be a source of rest amen
so if you want to rest just do it God's
way and leave it up to him
