so Paul David trip uh this is the
seventh in this series of 14 he says but
it's actually 15 uh he said you must be
committed as a parent to Long View
parenting because
change is a process and not an
event uh we kind of live in a world
where we don't like that we live in a
world of Jets of microwave ovens of cell
phones and texting and the internet
communicating with anybody across the
world for free now uh and doing instant
work I can be at home working and
produce a document that could be used in
a business somewhere in New York or
California that's pretty
instantaneous and we live with all of
that and so I think because of that
we're so used to that we may want
parenting to be just a series of
events and by that what I mean is is
that something I could do quickly at
this moment I'll do I'll fix it right
now or I'll create a schedule and then
we'll we'll fix the problem with our
child uh but we all know that's not true
we just keep denying it to
ourself we all have tried Quick Fix
methods in parenting and we all know
that none of them
work at least not for any period of
time they may work for the moment we
think but they don't really
work so I want to walk you through
something that you might not have
thought about your child has many
fleshly sinful weak points we're going
to talk more about that in another week
from now but let me just walk you
through some things that they're
struggling with as they're growing up
that you've already struggled with
because you're grown now so you don't
think about it so much but they're your
struggle and they're their struggle and
it's going to become more and more
apparent the deceitfulness of Satan
Genesis 3 and: 13 said the woman said
the serpent deceived me and
I8 Satan hasn't gone away he's still in
the deceiving business and there are a
lot of deceived people like people who
believe that they can do one thing and
fix their kids forever you're deceived
the knowledge of evil is real it's not
maybe Genesis 3 verses 6-7 and then
verse 22 verse 22 makes the point the
man has become like one of us to know
good and evil and now that can't be
taken away every child born all have
that ability to know good and evil we
all have it we don't just have the
ability we know good and evil every one
of us we don't just know good we're not
just neutral we know both things which
doesn't really make you neutral it's the
deceitfulness of sin that we struggle
with too Hebrews 3 and: 133 lest any you
be hardened through the deceitfulness of
Sin Sin itself has a way of lying to you
every time it is never truthful to you
it will tell you half truth it will tell
you partly the truth but that's the
reason we tend to believe stuff that's
just not
true the blindness of influence in Psalm
80 uh 58:3 it says the wicked go astray
as soon as they are born speaking lies
why do the wicked go astray as soon as
they're born it's not because they're
exceptionally more Wicked because
they're born to Wicked parents it's
because they're born to Wicked parents
and wicked parents who lie encourage
their kids to be like them and so they
immediately begin to do what their
parents are doing and just repeating
that and they know not not they have a
knowledge of Good and Evil and then of
course there's rebelliousness of
stubbornness and don't look at other
people like they have that problem and
other people's kids are stubborn every
last one of you raised a stubborn kid
now some of them you were able to make
them look like they weren't as stubborn
as the rest of them but they were just
faking it they were just as stubborn as
the rest of us and we all struggle with
it first cor 1st Samuel 15: 23 Rebellion
is as the sin of Witchcraft and
stubbornness is as iniquity and we all
have struggled with it and your children
struggle with it my children Str the
foolishness of immaturity Proverbs 22:15
foolishness is bound up in the heart of
a child children love to be foolish by
the way a lot of adults love to be
foolish too by the way love to do
something crazy that don't make any
sense the wickedness of Hearts uh
Jeremiah 17:9 says the heart is
deceitful above all things and
desperately wicked who can know it
that's your heart that's your heart not
people before they were Christians and
now we're Christians we don't have that
heart oh no no no no you are dealing
with it your sins's being dealt with but
don't you tell me you do not have a
wicked heart if you didn't have a wicked
heart you never sin
again but you sin you still sin you try
not to but you still sin and then
there's the ignorance of pridefulness
and we all struggle with pride somebody
says oh I don't think I have a pride
problem usually the people that start
telling you stuff like that are the
world's worst Psalm 19:12 who can
understand his errors cleanse me from
Secret faults I don't even know what my
sins are and by the way you don't either
sometimes you get a glimpse of what
really your weakness but you rarely know
yourself and pride blocks that and keeps
you from seeing yourself the way you
other people see other people can tell
you a few things about you that you
might not want to know and then there's
the lustfulness of fleshling Galatians 5
and: 16 walk in the spirit and you shall
not fulfill the lust of the flesh at
least while you're walking in the spirit
of course you're going to do it later
and then there's the hunger of
selfishness in Matthew chapter 4 this
this is the temptation to Jesus he was
hungry so the tempter said if you're the
Son of God command these stones to be
made bread so do what would be the most
self-centered thing you could do now you
say I don't think my kid has these
problems yeah not only does your kid
have this problem you have these
problems and you deal with them every
day now why do I bring all that up I'm
not to trying to depress you I'm really
making a point
here sanctification in the Bible is two
things okay I I hope you know this a lot
of people think it's one of these two
things but sanctification is always two
things in the scriptures sanctification
of a
child uh and his fleshly sinful ways is
two things it is an event and it is a
process it is an event and it is a
process that's the teaching of scripture
let me walk you through that when your
child will become a Christian
sanctification will be an event that's
true 1 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 2
says to those who are Sanctified in
Christ Jesus so if you're a Christian
now you have been Sanctified that's
right that was an event it happened when
you obeyed the gospel absolutely that
happened you were Sanctified 1
Corinthians 6: 9-11 neither fornicators
nor idolators nor adulterers nor
homosexual nor sodomites nor thieves nor
Covetous nor drunkard nor revilers nor
extortioners will inherit the kingdom of
God and such were some of you but you
were washed but you were Sanctified but
you were justified in the name of our
Lord Jesus Christ by the spirit of our
God yes we were Sanctified so no you
can't really charge me with all the
things I was guilty of previously that's
right it's because of an event I was
saved I became a Christian I I became a
believer in Jesus
Hebrews 10:10 says will we uh will we uh
have been Sanctified through the
offering of the body of Christ once and
for all so we have been Sanctified
through the offering of the body of
Christ once for all that was done
through Christ Hebrews 10: 10 now that's
when your child or when you become a
Christian sanctification is event but
it's also after after your child becomes
a Christian sanctification is now a
process it's the thing you're going
through every day now you are in a
sanctification process and your children
have to go through that same
sanctification process it's not an event
you can't have one conversation with
your kid and now he's going to
straighten up and he's going to fly
right he's now going to be that perfect
kid you never have spank him again you
never have to tell him what to do again
he is going to do everything he's
supposed to no that's not going to
happen listen to 2 Corinthians 3 and: 18
we all beholding the glory of the Lord
are being transformed into the same
image of the Lord that is from glory to
glory what does that mean that means I
don't look like Jesus and yet as I try
to look into Jesus I am being
transformed slowly from glory to glory
yet by his Spirit that's happening even
now it's happening with you if you're a
child of God tonight it's happening me 1
Thessalonians 4: 3 and 4 puts it this
way for this is the will of God your
sanctification God wants you to be
Sanctified well I thought he I thought
he already did that well he did but for
this is the will of God your
sanctification that you should abstain
from sexual immorality
and that each of you should know how to
possess his own vessel in sanctification
and honor so yes you were Sanctified but
right now you are being Sanctified as
you surrender your will to his will and
as you are willing to abstain from
sexual immorality and possess your body
in a sanctification way absolutely
Hebrews 10:14 says this for by one
offering he is perfected forever those
who are being Sanctified so it's both an
event and a process now that's so
important when we start thinking about
how we raise our children and if you
don't consider that you may think that
you could actually fix your kid in a
conversation you may think that one
moment in time will change
everything uh you're called to a
parenting process and by the way it
never
ends it just never ends I'm sorry that
kind of gives me a chuckle parent with a
process mentality and you'll be happier
parent with not only a process mentality
but with a project mentality your child
is a
project uh parent as if you're engaged
in one
unending
conversation that will go on and on
instead of oh well I'm through now got
that done let's go do something else no
that's not the way it works similarly
parenting is both an event
birth and a process
growth it is an event and a process
simultaneously so the parenting process
is used in
scripture and that process we see it
everywhere I mean we really see it
everywhere if you start looking in the
scriptures I'm going to use one example
please don't take this as the example of
a process but it's so obvious once you
take a look at it you go yeah that was a
process he went through so I I want you
to walk through the process of the
growth of Peter okay we'll just walk
through that really quick here we go if
you can hear
me a parenting process principle is the
sanctification process of
calling of
calling look how it all begins with
Peter in Matthew 4 beginning at Verse 18
and Jesus walking by the Sea of Galilee
saw two brothers Simon called Peter and
Andrew his brother casting a net into
the sea for for they were fishermen then
he said to them follow me and I will
make you Fishers of Men they immediately
left their Nets and followed him now if
you don't believe it's a process you
would think there it is he's become an
apostle he's all he needs to be there uh
nope not at all just the first step Luke
Chapter 5 going on Luke Chapter 5 he
went through what I would call a
guilting process which by the way I
think is good I think you need to
recognize that you go through a calling
process I think you also go through a
guilting process it may be mainly caused
by you in Luke 5 and verse 8 after that
big catch of fish and they've been
fishing all night and they catch this
big catch of fish Peter didn't think
that's going to happen but it happens it
says in verse 8 when Simon Peter saw it
that is that big catch of fish
he fell down at Jesus knees saying
depart from me for I am a sinful man oh
Lord you need to understand that's a
part of the process so sometimes people
think I feel terrible I did bad things
I'm no longer a Christian okay I'm no
longer a follower that's a part of the
process it's an essential part of the
process but it's a part of your
children's
process so it's it's a part of the
process that you feel guilt Peter felt
it and then the next one so a parenting
process principle is not just
calling it's guilting but then it's as
you see there
gifting look at Matthew chapter 10 read
it with
me and when he had called his 12
disciples to him he gave them
power over unclean spirits to cast them
out and to heal all kinds of sickness
and all kinds of disease now the names
of the twel Apostles are these first
Simon who is called Peter point is is
that he gifted them and I think you need
to understand that that's one of the
things parents do
they help in that gifting process what
skills you help develop their skills and
their abilities that's part of what you
do maybe teaching them some
things number next is the sanctification
process of
trying
trying Matthew 14: 28 and Peter answered
him and said Lord if you command me to
come to you on the water if it's you
command me to come to you on the water
and Peter stepped out and started
walking to him now none of the others
did it but we shouldn't conclude by the
fact that he was able to do it that he
was somehow so far above everybody else
so too your kid's going to try and do
some things be successful at some things
and not at others don't conclude by that
your kid is Superior in every way to
other people's kids it's just not the
case but it is a part of the process of
them growing up and becoming what they
need to
be and then going on a parenting process
principle in the sanctification process
is that of
confessing Mark I mean Matthew 1616 And1
17 this is the famous
passage Simon Peter answered and
said you are the Christ the son of the
Living God we all know that passage and
Jesus answered and said to him blessed
are you Simon bar Jonah for flesh and
blood has not revealed this to you but
my father who's in
heaven so there's a part of the process
of which when you are developing you
develop your
confession you begin to say what you
believe you begin to say what you think
what kind of person you are are so Peter
went through a calling he went through a
guilting he went through gifting he went
through being tried so he tried walking
on the water sank but he got out there
and did a little bit he went through
confessing he sounded like he was the
guy that knew later in that same passage
you're fixing to see he offended so he
immediately went from being this guy
that made the great confession to being
the guy that offended the Lord Jesus
that's the very next one when it say
suggests that a parenting process
principle is the sanctifying process of
offend Matthew 6:22 and 23 says then
Peter took him aside and began to rebuke
him saying because he said he could he's
going to die on across basically he
began to rebuke him saying far be it
from you Lord this shall not happen to
you she didn't they didn't believe that
good thing bad things happen a good
people verse 23 but he turned and said
to Peter get behind me Satan call Peter
Satan he just said blessed art thou
Simon bar Jonah now he calls him Satan
you are an offense to me for you are not
mindful of the things of God but the
things of men well that's at that moment
that doesn't mean for all time and so
too your kid's going to be a little
Satan from time to
time going to confess and be there and
really saying the right thing and you're
going to be so proud of him and the next
moment he or she's going to be like a
little devil opposing everything that's
good that's a process because they don't
understand what they're doing Peter
didn't understand what he was doing but
more than that I just want you to see
this process that he went through to
become this great Peter that we talk
about later app parenting process
principle is the sanctifying process of
denying now he's gone through that he's
just offended Jesus not long before this
and now he says I'll never deny you
listen to what he says verse 20 Matthew
26
73-75 and a little later those who stood
by came up and said to Peter surely you
also are one of them for your speech
betrays you he had that accent From
Galilee they could speak really good
Greek by the way verse 74 then he began
to curse and swear saying I do not not
know the man immediately a rooster crow
and Peter remembering the words of Jesus
who had said to him before the rooster
crows you will deny me three times so he
went out and wept bitterly so look look
at this process so he was called and you
think okay there and now we've got Peter
now he's guilted he felt really bad
about who he was but he still followed
and now he's walked on water didn't work
out too good he's confessed Jesus he
said wonderful things things then he
turns around and offends Jesus telling
him he doesn't know what he's talking
about now he's told that he's going to
deny Jesus and he does deny Jesus this
is the process every one of our children
go through there's an up and a down an
up and a down an up and a down and if
you don't think that's what's happening
to you you haven't faced the reality of
the truth about your child or about
yourself CU by the way most of us do
that
too okay now follow the last one and
we'll let this be the end of this a
parenting process principle is the
sanctifying process of
returning this is the good part about
Peter he messed up big
time but he ends up getting it right in
Luke 22:31 and 32 it says and the Lord
said Simon
Simon indeed say has asked for you that
he may sift you as we I don't know how
Jesus knew that somehow somebody told
him or the Devil Himself told you I
don't know but I prayed for you I ask
the father that your faith should not
fail and when you have returned to me
that means I know you're going to leave
me I know you're going to turn your back
on me I know you're going to deny me
you're not going to be for me anything
to save your hide that's what you're
going to do but when you have returned
strengthen your brethren but he said to
him Lord I am ready to go with you both
to prison and to death then he said I
tell you Peter the rooster shall not
Crow this day before you will deny three
times that you know me so this this
process but he finally does
return and he does lead the church to a
large degree from acts two on So that
look at this
process there's a point of
calling a point of feeling great guilt a
point of being gifted a point of trying
something succeeding a little bit
failing a point of confessing being very
positive a point of then offending a
point of denying and then a point of
returning that says to me that Peter
went through a process
and I think we all go through this
process we may not have recognized it
but we are all facing a process how does
the gospel bring us to maturity it's
process parenting is an event birth
that's an event parenting is a process
growth time spiritual maturity is the
same thing it's a process now we all
want
event-based
change in our
children and that's what we've
tried that's what we think spanking will
do one good
spanking time out one good timeout
that's what we think those conversations
will do one good
conversation and we're
done and you know it's never been that
way nobody's kid does that you don't it
doesn't happen and here's the thing that
I've noticed what happened with me maybe
it didn't happen with you but if I can
confess I thought expressing my
frustration in an outburst of anger
would scare The Living Daylights out of
the kid and make them want to do the
right
thing and I thought that would have a
lasting
effect did you ever think that way if I
could just get angry
tell them what I really thought then
they'd be scared of me and wouldn't want
to lose me and now it'll be
better listen to
James James
says let every man be swift to
hear slow to
speak slow to wrath for the wrath of man
does not produce
the righteousness of
God when every time I got angry with my
children I did not really make the
change I thought I was making if
anything I was pushing them the opposite
direction
because I was
misbehaving I was acting
out that's not a good thing now that's
not to say that you're not going to get
angry you are going to get angry but be
angry and said not don't let that
control
you in a conversation at a dinner party
Albert Einstein was present I when I
read this story I was actually surprised
never thought about Albert Einstein
having to eat but anyway so he obviously
not only ate but he had to eat with
people so casely so he's at a dinner
party and at that dinner party there was
a young neighbor a young lady who was a
neighbor who was with all the people
there and she went up to the old
scientist that she didn't know much
about she didn't really know who he was
you know frizzy-haired guy and she said
to him what do you actually do as a
profession and Albert Einstein said well
I devote myself to the study of
physics and the girl
went you mean you are still studying
physics at your age I finished the
course in physics last
year but to get to where he
was was a long
process Pablo Cal's
best remembered for some of his
recordings he was he played a cello
cello sweet by
B he was awarded the president medal of
freedom by uh John F Kennedy when he was
president back in
1963 at
95 a young reporter came up to him and
said this to Pablo Cals Mr
Cals you are 95 years years
old and the greatest
chist that has ever
lived why do you still practice 6 hours
a
day Cals
answered
because
I
think I'm making progress
progress parenting is a
process an
ongoing
project a
NeverEnding
conversation why because
process means
progress Our Father in Heaven is still
working on me
his child and I can be rather
childish why should I be different from
my
children why should I expect something
out of them that I could never do I
obeyed the gospel I'm done with sin I
obeyed the gospel now I'm going to
actually do everything right from here
on out I could never do it why would I
expect it from my
child now that's not to say just let
them do what they want that's not what
I'm talking about I'm trying to help you
recognize that it's a process some days
are going to be good some days you're
going to really be bad some days you're
going to love your kid you're going to
say oh honey you are so great I just
can't believe it some days you're going
to be can I kill him now sweetheart or
later it's it's just that frustr you
don't know what to do right because it's
a process
so don't lose you cool except that it is
a
process sure here believe repent confess
be baptized right at that moment
Sanctified absolutely saved absolutely
your sins have been forgiven yes the
blood of the Lamb has been applied to
you yes you're right with God absolutely
you're going to heaven yes Grace of
God's covered you no question that is
true that's what we're taught in Acts 2
no doubt it is is
instantaneous but as we all know after
you climb out of that Baptist
tree it's a
process Holiness is not something you
just put
on and you never struggle with sin again
that's just not the case the rest of
your life you are in a sanctification
process so now that we're talking about
all that that's what it comes down
that's why this is a message about the
gospel why does this need to be stated
it needs to be stated so firmly as I
have because we tend to
think well I'm going to read a book I'm
going to read a book and it's going to
tell me exactly what to do with my kid
and then they will never be bad
again I'm going to read a book and my
kid who's wandered away from the Lord is
going to I'll say something to them and
they'll they'll just come right back and
it'll never be a problem
again nobody's like
that children adults
nobody Sanctified once yes but a
sanctification process so that means
don't give up on your
kids don't give up and by the way you
say well my kids's
45 I'm tired well let me tell you
something it's process
maybe some of you remember there's a
little kids movie a few years ago called
The Neverending Story That's What
parenting is it's The Never Ending Story
you're never
free it'll be there to meet you tomorrow
so let's recognize that if you'll
recognize that lower your temperature
don't get so
upset calm yourself down quit thinking
I'm going to find some magic pit
work with what you got do it the way you
think the Lord Jesus would have you do
it and that's the best advice we can
have from scripture
