good morning
church yes I am not Rex Stutton
uh but uh for him and my mom I need to
extend a
thanks
um I don't think it's any secret that
they've had a really dark night or two
um everything was going well and uh for
instance I won't get into their uh my
mother is in the hospital now but as of
this morning she is out of surgery and
in
recovery which is tremendously good news
and uh we praise God for that and I
wanted to extend the thanks of my father
for all those who were praying all night
last night um and for myself thank you
from the bottom of my heart it means a
lot to
me um I think it's on our darkest nights
that uh our church family shines the
brightest and uh you really Shone bright
for us last night so thank
you so
today I'd like us to dive
into and revisit the concept of
righteous anger where did it come from
what does it mean what are we supposed
to do with it um but first if you will
pray with
me dear God thank you for this day thank
you for all the many blessings you given
us
thank you for this family and thank you
for the Forgiveness you've given us dear
Lord as we struggle with our anger we
ask that you forgive us for that
struggle forgive us for sometimes
misunderstanding and
misappropriating and forgive us for not
reading what your scriptures say on this
issue at sometimes so Lord just forgive
us all and forgive me especially for
this particular is issue and help us now
as we study this to see what you want us
to know on the topic of righteous anger
in Jesus name
amen so seeing pictures of South Africa
in Z Zimbabwe uh bring back a lot of
memories for me when I was over there as
a scrawny teenager um actually 30 years
ago to Day in South Africa was a very
memorable
formidable uh time to be in the country
it was the first time in history that
they were about to have their very first
general
election um it was with universal
suffrage so for the first time anyone
could vote any tribe any skin color it
was Monumental but at the time we didn't
know what was going to happen it was
very violent and honestly quite a scary
time to be in that
country but that was nothing nothing at
all compared to what was happening at
the exact same moment 30 years ago just
1500 mil north of where my folks are
right
now there in mataba was a young woman
named
immacula according to her she' been born
into
Paradise but that had all somehow gone
wrong she'd seen her childhood home
burned To The Ground by an angry mob and
watched helplessly as her family was
scattered to the wind fleeing for their
lives she knew in heart that her mother
father and two brothers had all been
murdered simply for being born
Tootsie she and six other women had
craned themselves into a tiny forgotten
bathroom to hide and wait out that
storm after a few nights around this
week 30 years
ago the pastor who was Sheltering them
came to them with a pale face and
bloodshot eyes and he said said it's
very bad outside very very bad I saw the
killings in 1959 and 1973 and they were
nothing compared to this you have to
understand that everything else has
stopped the schools the markets they're
closed and people aren't going to work
the country has been shut down until the
job is
done it was then that Immaculate
realized that they were at Ground Zero
for
genocide here are her words from that
night the other ladies were crying but
not me at that moment I had no tears to
shed I did not feel sorrow I felt anger
I was angrier than i' had ever been
before more than I believed was even
possible I was angry at the pastor for
telling us such horrific details about
what was happening to our families with
nowhere to hide I would I was angry at
the government for unleashing this
Holocaust I was angry at the rich
countries for not stopping the slaughter
but most of all I was angry at the hutus
all of them and the pastor as he droned
on about the horrible things being done
to tosis my anger grew into a deep
burning hatred I'd never done anything
violent to anyone before but at that
moment I wished I had a gun so that I
could kill every hu I saw no not a gun I
needed a machine gun grenades a
flamethrower I wanted to kill everyone
even the tootsies I wanted to be like
Rambo and set the whole country on fire
if I had had an atomic bomb I would have
dropped it on Rwanda and killed everyone
in our stupid hateful
land so have you ever felt anger like
that anger from a great injust Justice
anger that felt like it was suddenly an
essential part of you an anger that you
felt you needed to
survive perhaps an anger that you might
even call
Righteous well the first thing you need
to know about righteous
anger is that it isn't actually
mentioned in the Bible that phrase
doesn't exist a single time it first
appears in English literature around the
1650s but we've heard that phrase our en
life so surely it has some scriptural
meaning so maybe we can piece together
its meaning if we pull it apart into its
components so let's do
that what is righteous
anger our modern definition of
righteousness in most dictionaries is a
little bit off compared to the biblical
concept particularly in the Old
Testament which is that of a kind of
Charity that goes beyond fairness
biblical righteousness is the foundation
of what we know as Justice which kind of
makes sense in order for a society to
exist at some point someone has to give
a little bit more than is
fair in addition you cannot be righteous
alone in a bubble it requires
relationship in every single biblical
example with that context in mind here
are some of the ways the Bible describes
righteousness in Genesis rightous is
blameless in Nehemiah righteousness
keeps its promises in job righteousness
is glad and shouts for joy in Psalms
righteousness is sometimes secret but
always loved by God it does good deeds
which involve repayment over what is
owed righteousness utters wisdom and is
steadfast and enduring righteousness
kisses peace it grows like a cedar in
Lebanon in Psalms 92 in Proverbs
righteousness triumphs
and feeds and brings life it brings Joy
delivers from Death it flourishes like a
green leaf and it Bears fruits it guides
its neighbor and is satisfied it gives
and does not hold back it sings and
rejoices it cares about the poor in
Isaiah righteousness is a level path it
abides in a fruitful field it creates
peace and quiet in Isaiah 32 it is like
an oak tree planted by the Lord it is a
bright light in Isaiah
62 in Amos righteousness is an
overflowing stream in Malachi
righteousness is a healing Sunrise I
love that one in Romans righteousness is
a free gift which believes and trusts
forever and in James righteousness is a
harvest gathered
peacefully that's righteousness a
wonderful desire for right relationships
with all people it's something that
we're supposed to Crave and given the
description of it in the Bible I can
totally see why I mean who wouldn't want
that it sounds absolutely
wonderful now on the other
side anger is described in the Bible
with a very specific set of adjectives
anger is a hot fire it smokes it burns
it blazes it blasts it overturns it
rains down it floods over it overwhelms
and it
devours so let's
compare on one side we have a fruitful
field a level path a growing tree a
flowing stream a healing sunrise and on
the other hand we have this hot smoking
burning blazing blasting overturning
raining down flooding overwhelming
devouring
fire I can see why we put these two
words together they go together so well
like peanut butter and napalm
and that brings me to my first point
righteousness grows but anger
Burns in Matthew 56 as one of the
Beatitudes Jesus says blessed are those
who hunger and thirst for righteousness
for they shall be
satisfied on the other hand in
Colossians 3:8 it says but now you must
put away put them all away anger wrath
malice slander and obscene talk from
your mouth so wait we're supposed to put
away anger but hunger and thirst for
righteousness
interesting James 1: 19 says know this
my beloved Brothers let every person be
quick to hear slow to speak slow to
anger for the anger of man does not
produce the righteousness of God I'm
going to read that one more time the
anger of man does not produce the
righteousness of God there it is in
plain black and
white our anger may be righteous in our
own eyes it is not in
his these two things cannot actually
coexist in us which makes our righteous
anger a
fallacy but you may be thinking what
about God doesn't God get angry of
course he gets angry around 1650 when
this word came into being righteous
anger um it was invented originally as
far as as I can tell to create a line of
distinction between the anger that God
has and the anger that man
has
unfortunately um things went off the
rails after that um over time things
changed the concept has picked up steam
with the Advent of international news
coverage with 24-hour news the internet
social media at each one of these
Milestones the feedback loop has
increased in speed and and it continues
to do so uh we now see a lot of
Injustice in the world just being normal
citizens and we understandably get very
angry about
that um smart people who research this
kind of thing call it moral outrage and
you can see the trend here it's
generally seen as a positive thing the
problem is the problem is that since I'm
now outraged over a moral issue over
some issue of morality it is a very
small step for me to assume that my rage
is now
moral and this idea gradually leads us
to a very dark place you see if I see
some injustice of any kind and I reserve
my anger as I am supposed to I am now
being proceed as complicit in the
Injustice so now we have this culture
that sees a lack of anger as a form of
immorality and if you don't believe me
here are some quotes some headlines from
social media that I just saw this last
week this should make you angry no one
cares till the pain turns to anger I'm
angry at everything because I can't let
it win we aren't where we want to be
because we're not angry enough and the
saddest one I think is your anger is
sacred now it's pretty easy to imagine
how well how the well-meaning concept of
moral outrage can gradually leak in into
our faith uh giving rise to this idea of
righteous anger in humans as we
currently think of it but if we go back
to the original concept of God I believe
that God has the right when man wants to
fight let's look at Matthew 21:2 Jesus
cleanses the temple here uh and this is
the story that I've often used to
rationalize my own anger and maybe you
have as well but let's look at the story
a little bit more
deeply there are four facts about this
story that we tend to overlook the first
one is that this was a prophecy
fulfillment John 2:17 mentions this as a
prophetic quote from Jesus saying Zeal
for your house will consume me so this
is an expression of zeal and it is to
fulfill a prophecy and I think that's an
important fact two Jesus Is God so yes
he is man but he and he experiences
anger and he likely did experience anger
here but he is also God and has a right
to that anger just like he has a right
to Miracles and he has a right to
forgive our sins he has a right to judge
and he has a right to knowledge that we
will never
know Jesus's Zeal was also not aimed at
the world which I think is interesting
but with members of his wider Jewish
Community who were there exploiting
their fellow members uh their fellow
brothers under the pretense of worship
and at the same time they were also
insulting his father basically what I'm
saying is these people knew
better and finally number four he acted
and moved on to his work immediately
after this he was Healing The Sick he
was basically doing this just to move on
and get to the work he didn't hold on to
this anger for weeks or months or years
like I probably
would he did the right thing so that he
could move on and move on to the work at
hand let's keep going Romans 12 verse 19
beloved never avenge yourselves but
leave it to the wrath of God for it is
written vengeance is mine I will repay
says the Lord and there are various
other verses that mirror this in simple
terms God has the right to Vengeance and
we do
not in 2 Thessalonians 1:6 says for
after all it is only just for God to
repay with Affliction those who afflict
you so God and Christ by extension have
the right to anger and the right to
handle it however they see
fit Matthew 18:21 says uh I'm sorry I'm
going to just this is what we already uh
read I'm going to just summarize this is
the parable of the merciful servant
unmerciful servant uh the king forgave a
debt of a servant but the servant did
not forgive the others his debts uh the
King which is God in this analogy found
out and the forgiveness of the unforg
unforgiving servant was
revoked see that servant in this story
is us we are the ones that tend to
elevate ourselves to the level of King
so that we can ignore his example and
dish out our own anger and
Vengeance it's as if we think God won't
notice so when we pretend our anger is
like God's it's a forgery
now you may be thinking what about the
problem of
inaction well if we get rid of our anger
surely then How can any of the
injustices we see ever get solved right
um one book on leadership gave this
advice when a member of your team comes
up to you in anger and wants to vent
listen to them but then ask them one
very specifically worded
question what are you going to do about
it and I've used this many many times
because it forces them to switch from a
mindset of self-righteous indignation
into a mindset of problem
solving most of the time they drop it
because they just wanted to be validated
and they wanted to be validated more
than they actually wanted to redeem the
situation but on that rare
occasion when they listen they turn it
around they actually move us all towards
a solution of
Peace one that they would not have been
able to even see had they not stopped
arguing and proving themselves
right I think particularly us guys love
the fantasy of productive rage we love
it we love seeing it in movies and in
TV we love it when the hero suddenly has
permission to get Vengeance to Hulk
out so yeah he killed a thousand guys
but did you see what they did to his
puppy no I mean what's next John Wick
chapter 13 they killed a kitten this
time and the world will burn you
know we may want to think that our anger
is required to solve Injustice but when
it comes to our Justice we seem to want
level-headed people we want level-headed
officers we want levelheaded judges we
never want somebody who's angry to take
care of our justice but somehow we can
take care of other people's Justice when
we're
angry you see anger is just a signal
from our endocrine system to inform us
that there's been some sort of
unexpected violation but once we've been
able to process that signal and
understand it we can still be free to
act sometimes we want to believe so
badly that our anger is what fuels
change that we Harbor it and hold on to
it preventing us from actually acting to
begin with because we forget that being
angry
is in action and sometimes it takes
every moment of our attention to sit and
stew and
rage I have spent countless nights up
past 3:00 a.m. having imaginary
arguments with people who aren't there
over issues that are not my business um
and I can attest it burns a lot of
calories but it doesn't actually solve
anything in social media research we've
seen that people who like and comment on
posts about any cause are actually much
less likely to get involved in that
cause so we have now created this
culture where
we have a much greater desire to be seen
as right than to actually be
righteous what's interesting to me is
that the Bible is way ahead of us on
understanding this issue by telling us
that love endures when anger
rests in Ecclesiastes 79 it sayso not
hasten in your spirit to be angry for
anger rests in the bosom of fools
o you can let that anger sit in your
belly for years and it will never
accomplish
anything and by the way the internet
doesn't have a bottom you can fill it
with rage your entire life and it will
still want
more Proverbs 14:29 says whoever is slow
to anger has great understanding but he
who has Hast who is Hasty exalts father
in other words a bad temper doesn't
typically lead to good things in
Proverbs 19 sorry verse 11 uh it says a
good sense Good Sense makes one slow to
anger and it is his to his glory to
overlook an offense it is not glory to
focus on an offense did you notice that
it is to our glory to overlook
it Proverbs 29:11 says a fool vents all
his anger but a wise man holds it back
oh sorry that
was meanwhile in 1 Corinthians 13: 1-7
it says love is patient and kind love
does not envy or boast it is not
arrogant or rude it does not insist on
its own way it does not it is not
irritable or resentful it does not
rejoice at wrongdoing but rejoices with
the truth love bears all things believes
all things hopes all things and endures
all
things it seems to me that love can do
more in one day than hatred and anger
can do in a
lifetime and I Think Jesus is a good
example of
that but what if our anger is with
someone in the Brotherhood who has done
us wrong surely then our anger is just
and productive in that space well
Galatians 6:1 says Brothers if anyone is
caught in any transgression you who are
spiritual should restore him in the
spirit of gentleness keep watch on
yourself lest you be tempted bear one
another's burdens and so fulfill the law
of Christ there's nothing in here folks
that says that to fulfill the law of
Christ we need to be angry quite the
opposite in fact we are to be gentle
because he is gentle with us remember we
are not the king in this equation we all
wish we could use our hot smoking
burning blazing blasting overturning
raining down flooding overwhelming Dev
in fire to solve problems because we got
that in
Spades uh but that is not in scripture
at all love is what endures and anger
rests that makes our concept of
productive righteous anger pure
fantasy so if righteous anger is a
fallacy a forgery a fantasy what are we
supposed to do with all this anger it
seems like the world needs us to be in
the state of Perpetual obsessive anger
well I've got good news for that one
Jesus has the fix in Luke 17:3 it says
pay attention to yourselves if your
brother sins rebuke him and if he
repents forgive him and if he sins
against you seven times in that day and
turns to you seven times saying I Repent
you must forgive him note rebuke here
means to warn not to rage not to scream
not to shame I think sometimes we tend
to exaggerate the word rebuke here so
that we can ignore the word word forgive
here next Ephesians 4: 26 says be angry
and do not sin aha it says I can be
angry and not sin you I got you well
hold on let's keep reading do not let
the sun go down in your anger okay so
I've got like six more hours in the day
I'm good right and give no opportunity
to the devil and then three second
sentences later it says let all
bitterness and wrath and anger and
clamor and slander be put away from you
along with all malice be kind to one
another tender-hearted forgiving one
another as God in Christ forgave you so
this is saying that yes we are human we
will get angry when we are angry we
cannot let the sin rest in us and get
comfortable and cause us to sin it does
not matter what they did to us or what
label we tend to put on our anger we
must put it away and forgive because
anger is
radioactive which means Church we've all
got about six hours left in the day to
get rid of every bit of anger we've ever
achieve
uh it's a hard task
right but sometimes we get angry at our
peers the world or even the
government thankfully Jesus gave us an
example on how to deal with those forces
as well 1 Peter 2 verse 23 says when he
was reviled he did not revile in return
when he suffered he did not threaten but
continued entrusting himself to him who
judges justly in other words trust in
God when we rage we show the world a
profound lack of faith in God who can
judge
justly we're like kids on the playground
dealing Justice with rubber bands just
assuming that the teacher can't see and
doesn't know the teacher always
knows
oh here we go Matthew 6:14 says for if
you forgive others their trespasses your
heavenly father will also forgive you so
not only is God merciful but if we
forgive those debts against us he's
going to forgive
us that's not a good King that is an
amazing
King and finally Luke 9:23 says if
anyone would come after me let him deny
himself
and take up his cross daily and follow
me church have you ever found yourself
among the angry
voices I have I found myself out there
chanting shaking my fist in Rage just
just so
angry when I have suddenly realized that
I was supposed to be carrying
something and I look back and I see the
cross there in the dust left
behind I was supposed to be carrying
that I was supposed to be up there with
him with the thieves and the murderers
that's what I
deserve instead I've joined the howling
mob I'm only just now realizing what it
means to take up my cross daily we daily
choose to die to ourselves and take up
the burden of
forgiveness every day we walk through
those angry voices to be reviled but not
revile in return like him we can make
the choice to forgive before the
offenses even take
place that removes the power from the
rage that they have and converts it into
something
beautiful so Jesus is fixed for anger is
radical premeditated forgiveness to
follow him we must die to ourselves pick
up our cross daily already forgiving the
world for being itself because let's be
honest we're not surprised we like to
Pretend We're shocked every day at what
the world is giving us but we've been
here a while guys we know we
know by the time the sun goes down our
burden that we're carrying will be gone
just like his
was
now not long after that dark moment of
rage immaculate's story
continues I thought about how that
baby's life had ended I prayed for God
to receive the child's innocent soul and
then asked him how can I forgive people
who would do such a thing to an
infant I heard his an answer as clearly
as if it I'd been he'd been sitting with
me in the same room
chatting you are my children
and the baby is with me
now it was such a simple sentence but it
was the answer to the prayers I've been
lost in for days the killers were like
children yes they were barbaric
creatures who would have who would have
to be punished severely for their
actions but they were still children
they were cruel vicious and dangerous as
kids sometimes can be but nonetheless
they were children they saw but didn't
understand the terrible harm they'd
inflicted they'd blindly hurt others
without thinking they'd hurt their
Tootsie brothers and sisters they hurt
God and they didn't understand how badly
they were hurting themselves their minds
had been infected with the evil that had
spread across the country but their
souls weren't
evil despite their atrocities they were
children of God and I could forgive a
child so that night she prayed for The
Killers who were searching for her the
anger that had burned so fiercely began
to extinguish
and for the first time since she'd
entered that tiny dark room she slept in
peace she
survived months later after the war had
ended she came to the prison where a
certain man was being
kept this man was the known leader of
the gang who' killed immaculate's mother
and brother the mayor fetched the
murderer and pushed him to his knees
right in front of her the mayor raged
and screamed at the man demanding he
answer for his crimes to her the
murderer just sobbed there completely at
immaculate's Mercy barely able to make
eye
contact she reached out touched his
hands and said I forgive
you the man was dragged away the mayor
the mayor was furious with Immaculate
asking how could you possibly do that
and she replied simply forgiveness is
all I have to offer she had already
dropped the
rage so when have we felt righteous
anger never not once in our lives it's a
fallacy it's a forgery it's a
fantasy and believing in it I believe
can actually prevent us from approaching
righteousness the only righteous way to
deal with anger is to drop it quickly
and then we can pick up our cross daily
and move forward with forgiveness in our
hearts the good news is that we don't
actually have to kill carry the burden
of Rage
anymore it was never actually required
of us to begin
with we all struggle with forgiveness
but Jesus died for the Forgiveness of
our sins and we are meant to participate
in that great work of his one way that
we do this is by repenting of our sins
confessing that he is Christ and dying
to ourselves in baptism for the
remission of our sins if you have any
personal need today Church we're here to
help you please come now as we stand and
sing
