when we do kind Deeds for
Neighbors we never know how crucial it
is Robert Roberta not Robert Roberta
kestner it's a hard name to say in 2018
wrote these
words a number of years ago my husband
and I went to Applebees y'all know
Applebees haven't been in a while
anybody been to Al lately I haven't been
in a while I hope they're still in
business number of years AG ago my
husband and I went to Applebees on our
anniversary for a quiet dinner together
it was indeed very
quiet because my husband had just been
ordered to undergo an
MRI and we knew that the results might
change our future together still we did
what old married couples often do we sat
and held hands and talked about everyday
kinds of things
we ordered a small dessert to
celebrate however when we went to pay
the waitress told us that someone had
overheard that it was our
anniversary and had paid for our
dinner over the next year we would
discover my husband had a
progressive terminal neurological
disease while we went back to Applebee
uh one other
time that would be the very last time we
had dinner there together on our
anniversary the following year he would
be vomiting in
rehab and by the year after he was
confined to a
wheelchair while I could I would do a
curbside
order and we would still share that same
meal even if it was at home
home but in my heart I always carried
the
memory of that kind
person who had no idea how important
that gift of love was on that particular
day when we do kind Deeds for
Neighbors we never know how crucial it
may
be Jesus in his preaching
was more about moral
works and kindness and good deeds and
sometime we attribute to
him Jesus and if you read The Sermon on
the Mount you can't miss that really
Jesus did not preach as much about the
gospel as sometimes we want to make out
that he preached about the
gospel Jesus did not preach as much
about major theological iCal doctrines
such as election or atonement or
perseverance and what those kinds of
things didn't talk much about that kind
of thing at all from any
perspective Jesus was filled with grace
and graciousness and he was God's grace
to the
world but show me the sermon where he
used the word grace in it and preached
to how you need to believe in grace and
you won't find it because he didn't talk
about Grace much at all he was Grace
R they didn't talk about it
much Jesus preached duties of life and
what ought to be done for
others Jesus didn't shy away from
teaching obedience and conviction and
conversion he definitely preached all
those things and Jesus emphasized man's
duty to God and man's duty to man over
and over and over again so regarding
this second most important
command like Matthew 22:39 says it
is that's the command that I want to
emphasize tonight because Jesus
emphasized it he didn't say it once he
said it in different ways over and over
again we'll look at three main truths of
love your neighbor really the first
truth that we're going to look at is a
sermon by itself I apologize for having
two more points but it is the way it's
going to be
so number one we want to look at the
instruction of this command and what you
need to see is the instruction is what
you read up there love your neighbor as
yourself and I want to break that down
okay so you fully understand because
what you
know you haven't always
learned you shall love let's take that
apart Matthew 199 says honor your father
and your mother and you shall love your
neighbor as yourself in Leviticus 19:18
is which It quotes you shall not take
Vengeance nor bear any grudge against
the children of your people but you
shall love your neighbor as yourself I
am the Lord that means pay
attention in Galatians 5 and ver14 says
for all the law is fulfilled in one word
even in this you shall love your
neighbor as yourself so how do you do it
now we know that's absolutely what's
taught you know that now but have you
learned it how are you supposed to do
that
so you love your neighbor how well one
way you love your neighbor is with
kindness in Luke 6:35 it says this love
your enemies do good for he that is God
is kind to the unthankful and evil so if
you're going to do this you've got to
learn to be kind to people who are not
kind love implies also towards your
neighbor you knew it with helpfulness
you be someone who's helpful Romans
13:10 love does no harm to a neighbor
love is the Fulfillment of the law
instead of doing harm we are
helpful the exact opposite of harm love
also M must be defined this love for
your neighbor as we do it with
edification that is building them up
Romans 15:2 says Let each of us please
his neighbor for his good leading to
edification so even if he's not a
brother in the Lord absolutely it is our
duty if we love our neighbor one of the
ways we love our neighbor is to build
them up and love also implies if you
love your neighbor you do it with
service which is similar to what we've
already looked at at helpfulness but
Galatians 5: 13- 14 says through love
serve one another that's within the body
particularly for all the law is
fulfilled in one word even in this you
shall love your neighbor neighbor as
yourself so through love serve one
another so you want to not just know it
learn it by
serving love your neighbor also suggests
that we have to have a certain level of
honesty with each other Ephesians 4 and
verse 25 Let each one of you speak truth
with his neighbor this idea of always
being so careful that we never tell each
other what we need to hear is not love
love will tell you what you need to hear
and the truth so it's honest love also
for your neighbor implies that if you
love your neighbor you need to love them
with
impartiality in James 2: 8 and9 it says
this if you really fulfill the Royal law
which is you shall love your neighbor as
yourself you do well but if you show
partiality you commit sin and are
convicted by the law as
transgressors so we must be equally
loving toward each person here not just
our
buddies but now more love this love
which we know but maybe we haven't
learned is you love your neighbor With
Honor you show honor and respect for
each other and 1 Peter 2:1 17 honor all
people that includes everybody in this
room right everybody so that's love
that's maybe you haven't learned to do
that even though you know it but then
your neighbor who are we talking about
there in Matthew 199 again I'll read it
again you shall love your neighbor as
yourself like
Samaritans cuz who was their neighbor
other than their own people they had
neighbors they were the Samaritans in
Luke chapter 10 Jesus uses the Samaritan
to be the hero of the Good Samaritan
right we all know that he was the one
that was kind took care of the man who
had been robbed and left naked and
bleeding nearly dead on the side of the
road
it says in verse 36 which of these three
the the levite and the priest or the
Samaritan which of these three do you
think was neighbor interesting way way
of using that word isn't it was neighbor
to him who fell among the thieves in
verse 37 and the man he's speaking to
and he said he who showed Mercy on him
and Jesus said that's right go and do
likewise so we need to focus on
who is my
neighbor who is my
neighbor and it means I'm to
love your neighbor you're to love your
neighbor we're to love our neighbor of a
different
religion not just people who go to
church with me Ezra 4: 3-6 because he
was talking about the Samaritans
here Ezra 4: 3-6 says the heads of the
Father's House of Israel said to them
you may do nothing with us to build a
house for our God but we alone so we
don't have anything to do with you
Samaritans but we alone will build to
the Lord God of Israel then the people
of the land tried to discourage the
people of Judah these are many of the
people who would be the Samaritans later
they troubled them in building and hired
counselors against them to frustrate
their purposes they wrote an accusation
against the inhabitants of Judah and
Jerusalem so you don't just love people
that agree with you
theologically that think just like you
do that's not a
challenge challenge love people who
think differently than you they believe
differently than
you such a time as this maybe we need to
hear
that love your neighbor of A different
race because that's actually what's
happening here when he's suggesting the
Samaritans
because they didn't consider them a part
of the Jewish race Matthew 10 verse 5 do
not go into the way of the Gentiles and
do not enter a city of the
Samaritans they didn't have much to do
with them did they yeah love your
neighbor of A different race
because you got to understand who your
neighbor
is yeah your buddy at church but it's
way more than
that way more than that you got to love
your neighbor of a different business
maybe even somebody that's in
competition with you wow that's
different like him I don't know he works
against it John
4:9 you are a Samaritan you we have no
dealings with Samaritans bottom
line no business with them that's really
the way they did they didn't do much
business at all with with each other how
about that have you ever heard of that
like actually going into some businesses
and not going into other people's
business you wouldn't know anything
about that you weren't raised in the
South like I was love your neighbor of a
different Spirit John 8 ver 48 you're a
Samaritan and have a demon don't you
think about how far that's going can you
imagine one group of people calling the
other group of people bad
names oh wait I think that's what's
going on right now
that's what they
did it's easy to label people isn't it
so easy and you know you got them
there's nothing like pining hole in
everybody but if I'm to love
them that's different in
it love your neighbor of a different
morality of a different morality
acts 10:28 you know how unlawful it is
for Jewish man to keep company with or
go into one of another Nation but God
has shown me thou shall not call any man
common or unclean why did they not go
into them because they thought they were
dogs literally morally dogs everybody
other than the Jews were morally dogs
you don't hang around with people who
are
immoral I would never be around somebody
immoral well you'd have to leave the
world let's be honest and if you think
you don't run into immoral people people
at church you're
mistaken
mistaken of course not on a Sunday
night love your neighbor of a different
country Leviticus 19:34 says the
stranger who dwells among you shall be
to you as one born among you and you
shall love him as yourself for You Were
Strangers in the land of Egypt I am the
Lord your God
someone of a different country a
stranger you see what I mean by you know
stuff but have you learned
it so you love your neighbor of a
different temperament are there people
of different temperaments oh yeah even
among our
fellowship in Leviticus 19: 17 17- 18 it
says you shall surely rebuke your
neighbor and not bear sin because of him
you shall not take vengeance nor bear
any grudge against the children of PE of
your people but you shall love your
neighbor as yourself so that means that
people who want to be in trouble with
you you got to figure out a way to try
to get along with that
one so now that's the second part the
third part of this text is the word
yourself it
says in Matthew 199 19 you shall love
the neighbor your neighbor as yourself
in Ephesians 5 trying to figure out what
he means by that just try to let the
Bible be the the dictionary Ephesians
5:28 so husbands ought to love their own
wives as their own bodies he who loves
his wife loves himself so paralleling
that how does that work if I parallel
that with my neighbor obviously it's not
going to be like my wife but it's going
to be similar because I'm to love my
wife as I love myself you're to love
your husband as you love yourself what
do you do for yourself well loving
yourself should be like loving your
neighbor but what do you do for yourself
you nourish yourself Ephesians 5:29 for
no one ever hated his own flesh but
nourishes and cherishes it just as the
Lord does the church so when you know
your NE neighbor is hungry or he needs
some kind of spiritual n nourishment or
physical nourishment step up right what
we tried to do during the the flooding
time right step up but more than that
you cherish them because you cherish
your body right you do and so you try to
cherish your wife your husband right so
you try to cherish those that you're
supposed to love as yourself which would
be in this case a neighbor Ephesians
5:29 for no one ever hated his own flesh
but nourishes and cherishes it I don't
just like my my toe I grieve for it if
it gets
stumped I mean I will hold it and caress
it and talk to it and ask it why it did
that and all kinds of things I cherish
it and and but I don't think about it
very much but I Do Cherish it it's
important to
me and loving your neighbor as yourself
is to defer to them if you love someone
as yourself you defer to them if you're
married gentlemen
who are husbands and your
wives you defer to them you don't just
do what you want to do you defer to them
listen to Ephesians 5: 21-22 submitting
to one
another in the fear of God and then it
says wives submit to your own husbands
and of the Lord but it starts out we all
have to do it a little bit right even if
you're really the guy in control you
still better learn to submit and defer
to what they want right not differ we
can do that all the time defer is a
little different word to defer to the
other person so if you love your
neighbor as yourself the emphasis on as
yourself you should defer to what they
need or want loving your neighbor as
yourself also is to save them if I
really love someone as I love myself you
know what I want to do if I fall in the
lake and I can't swim I'm going to try
to save myself the best I can we need to
save them and that's what we do for our
mates Ephesians 5:23 for the husband is
the head of the wife as also Christ is
the head of the church and he is the
savior of the body he loves the body he
saves the body you love your mate you
try to save your mate you love your
neighbor as yourself you're going to try
to save them make sure they to Heaven
amen everybody around you and loving
your neighbor since it's as yourself is
to sacrifice for them right because if
you love your mate you sacrifice for
them that's what Jesus did Ephesians
5:25 love your wives as Christ also
loved the church and gave himself up for
her so that's what you do you sacrifice
you don't do what you want to do you do
what they need you to do right that's
sacrifice so for your neighbor so if you
love your neighbor as yourself and by
the way I'm talking about those people
sitting in the room with you right now
and those who sit with you on Sunday
morning and those sit with you on
Wednesday night and those who never sit
with you who live in their home and are
home in their houses right
now so love your neighbor as yourself is
to sanctify them especially those you
sit with in church though Ephesians 5
26- 27 says that he might sanctify and
cleanse her that he might present her to
himself a glorious church not having
spot or wrinkle or any such thing but
that he should be holy and without
blemish it should be our duty to each
other to try to uplift each other to
help you be the holiest people you can
possibly be it is my responsibility to
you it is your responsibility to me we
are to try to get each other to be pure
and live that way that is your duty to
your mate is it not the worst thing you
can do is go home talk like a uh a
sailor watch any filth on TV at all go
to places you know Christians shouldn't
go to get drunk do drugs at your
house u in front of your wife in front
of your husband in front of your
children right why because you want them
to have a holyness
sanctity but more than that you should
do that for your neighbors they ought to
see that too the people around you and
people here at this church so what you
do really matters to the rest of us
loving your neighbor as yourself is to
bond to them we need to be your family
and some people say yeah I love the
church and then won't have anything to
do with
us don't want to be with us that's not
bonding how how would you feel if your
wife didn't want to be around you or
your husband didn't want to be around
you your children didn't want to be
around you that's
miserable but Ephesians 5:30 and 31 for
we are members of of his body of his
flesh and of his bones for this reason a
man should leave his father and mother
be joined to his wife and the two shall
become one flesh there is a bonding that
takes place if you love your mid as
yourself if you love anyone as
yourself there's a
bond so we see love your neighbor as
yourself is the instruction of this
particular command now we this point
number two
told you it's going to be weird all
right Point number two the motivation of
this command is
yourself I know that sounds wrong but it
is the truth the motivation to do this
is this is in your best interest this is
for you this isn't for
them this is for you you need to do this
for yourself love your neighbor as
yourself is actually achievable because
you got investment in this this is in
your best interest Deuteronomy 3011 says
this command I command you today is not
too mysterious for you nor is it too far
off it may seem what we just talked
about really hard to do these things but
it's not mysterious we can learn it we
may think we know it but we can learn to
do these things and love your neighbor
as yourself is reciprocal you will get
it back if you love your maid as
yourself you will be blessed if if you
love anyone as yourself you will be
blessed listen to Luke 16:9 I say to you
my friends for your uh make friends for
yourself by for I can't even read I say
to you make friends for yourself my by
unrighteous Mammon that when you fail
they may receive you into an everlasting
home that means be friends with
everybody even unrighteous people even
unrighteous people even people
are Crooks you should be friends as much
as possible with everybody you can be
friends that doesn't mean that you do
with them what they do doesn't mean you
hang with them when they're sinning but
the idea of being friendly to everybody
so that when they have a need you step
up and you help them if they need the
shirt off your back you take the shirt
off your back for people who aren't
Godly
yes because some of the people that I've
seen more willing to take their shirt
off their back or some of the most
ungodly people I've ever seen but
they'll give you the shirt off their
back so be willing to do that and loving
your neighbor as yourself which is in
your best interest is radical because
quite honestly the rest of the world
doesn't do what we're talking about if
you pay attention to what's on the news
right now you know this country is full
of hatred for their
neighbor ungodly
attitudes and some of us are full of
that it's not in your interests and it's
not radical to do what everybody else
does it's radical to not do what
everybody else does acts
17:6 these who have turned the world
upside down have come here too I want to
be a world Turner upside Downer don't
you I'm from Alabama I don't speak
right love your neighbor as yourself is
also a peaceful thing brings peace in
Matthew 5: 38-42 it says this you have
heard that it was said an eye for an eye
I want to talk about this you've heard
that it said an eye for an eye they did
it to me I'm going to do it to them an
eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth
I'm going to get them back you know even
if it's you know he's dead uh verse 39
neither got it verse 39 both of them's
asleep but but I tell you not to resist
an evil
person but whoever slaps you on your
right cheek turn the other to him if
anyone wants to sue you and take away
your
tunic let him have your cloak
also and whoever compels you to go one
mile go with him
too give to him who ask you
and from him who wants to borrow from
you do not turn
away but but they're abusing me I
understand you want to abuse them back I
get
it that's why we not good enough for the
bad guy in the movie to just shoot him
we have to shoot him blow him up and
burn his house down you know I mean it's
just never enough the violence is Never
Enough in 1914 where did this idea of of
this eyer n tooth for Toth become kind
of a bad thing in in our society
um Greg or George Graham said if in this
present age we were to go back to the
old time of an eye for an eye and a
tooth for a tooth there would be very
few honorable gentleman in this house he
was a uh congressman who would not
metaphorically speaking be blind and
Toothless but that wasn't the only time
it's been used in 1944 Henry Powell
spring said in his book of affirms if
the spirit who is life exacted an eye
for an eye or a tooth for a tooth this
world would indeed be peopled with the
Blind and the
toothless Gandhi's biographer L leis
frer in 19 47 said the shreds of
individuality cannot be sewed together
with a Bayonet boy this country needs to
hear that right now nor can democracy be
restored according to the biblical
injunction of an eye for an eye which in
the end would make everybody blind in
1950 he went on to write more about
Gandhi he said the policy of an eye for
an ie for an ie for an eye for an ie
ends in making everybody blind in 1958
you may have heard this fellow Martin
Luther King was influenced by Gandhi
said the Old Law of an eye for an eye
leaves everybody blind it is immoral
because it seeks to humiliate the
opponent rather than win his
understanding it seeks to annihilate
rather than to convert and then in 1971
Fiddler on the Roof the
musical we should defend ourselves and I
for an eye tooth for a tooth Jewish
people very good and that way the whole
world will be blind and
Toothless motivation it's in your best
interest why should you love your
neighbor as yourself because it is
achievable it's reciprocal it's going to
come back to you it's radical it's
unlike everybody else and people will
notice it but it's peaceful it's in your
best interest it's the motivation for
loving them you will be better off
finally last point the suggestion of
this command is you
shall now I'd like you to do
this you
shall called it a suggestion thought
that was
funny the text suggest the guilty state
of guess
who you
and me us all the guilty state of us all
is the truth Romans 3:23 says for all
have sinned and fall short of the glory
of God if God's law demands that I love
my neighbor which we just saw second
most important command you have to be
like me you can't plead not
guilty I remember many times I've spoken
harsh things about my neighbor
don't look at me like you
haven't not only does that suggest that
but it suggest the law state of us all
that means you're bound for hell if
that's all we've got if that's all the
information we got if you've not been
loving towards your neighbor based upon
the
law you're
guilty and if that's all we base it on
you're lost and I'm lost Galatians 21:16
knowing that a man is not justified by
The Works of the law but by the faith in
Jesus Christ why is that the case
because we haven't kept the law even we
have believed in Christ that we might be
justified by faith in Christ and not by
The Works of the law for by The Works of
the law no flesh shall be justified so
quit sitting there thinking oh I've
Loved all my neighbors as myself no you
have not no more than you've loved God
at every step of your life with all your
heart with all your soul with all all
your strength with all your mind with
all your possessions with all your
family with all your kids with all your
Deeds that's just not true and you know
it if no one can be saved unless we keep
this law perfectly who can be
saved who has loved our neighbor always
as
ourself since we haven't we should all
perish we can't can't go to heaven
breaking this
law so the only hope we have is
pardon the only hope we have is pardon
our text suggests the need to be saved
by Faith by believing in him for us all
John 3:15 and 16 whoever believes in him
should not perish John 11:26 whoever
lives and Believes In Me shall never die
John
12:46 whoever believes in me should not
abide in darkness acts 10:43 whoever
believes in him will receive remission
of sin Romans 9:33 whoever believes on
him will not be put to shame first John
51 whoever believes that Jesus is the
Christ is born of God Mark 16:16 he who
believes and is baptized will be saved
here's the deal you're saved by
faith not by perfectly loving your
neighbor as
yourself so we see you shall is the
suggestion okay so this is the lesson
you've seen it we have instruction love
your neighbor as yourself we have a
motivation yourself and we have a
suggestion you shall it's a command it's
not an optional thing it's
command Dr Fred Douglas Shephard you
ever heard of him that name ring a bell
cuz I hadn't when I was reading this
never heard of him it's long dead before
I was born so I guess that's part of it
uh Born In 1855 in New York but in
Ellenburg I don't even know Ellenberg
New York do you know Ellenberg New York
somebody here may I
don't uh his father died when he's very
young his mother was an invalid all of
his childhood gr he's growing
up um
it's probably the reason he wanted to
take care of
people so he ended up moving with his
family to Madrid and in a Revival there
he ended up believing in Christ and it
changed his life radically he went on to
be educated at Cornell University and at
the University of Michigan he graduated
with a medical degree in
1881 I don't know what that degree would
be like today probably wouldn't be
enough that You' didn't want to go to
him for a cold
but in 1882 he and his wife was also a
physician and her name was Fanny I got
to the good stuff yet so stay with me
just a second they moved to of all
things Eastern Turkey to the Ottoman
Empire that's gone now it's gone Eastern
Turkey to work in Azariah Smith Medical
Hospital never heard of it don't know
anything about
it he there served patients
of many different races and many
different religions they spent their
lives in Eastern Turkey because Christ
had become his Lord in his understanding
it radically changed his life he started
a medical school where
221 men graduated with a medical degree
at least for turkey to go out and take
care in the Ottoman Empire the many
suffering now the obviously this is not
a Christan Christian Nation I don't know
what you know about the Ottoman Empire
but it wasn't even a safe place to be a
Christian the records show that in
1914 he had seen
6,000 patients in clinic he had seen
2,000 patients in their homes that's
right he went to their homes and took
care of them but only 800 ever paid him
a penny
his service was so important to the
people of that day he received medals
from the Red Cross from the then
President Taft the Sultan of
turkey in 1908 a church held a
celebration of his ministry and that's
what he called it a Ministry because he
only went to
serve and it was filled that church was
filled that day with Muslims or Islamic
people Catholics Gregorian an Jews
Protestants and the list goes
on two hours they stood up and talked
about what Dr Shephard had done for them
and their nation and their
people that ain't going to happen when I
die he said the celebration was really
not about him but about one even greater
God and his love this is direct quote I
did not come to this country to make
money or
reputation I came to bear witness that
God is love if by my work I have been
able to show you him I have had my
reward and I thank
him you probably don't know anything
about the history about the Armenian
Genocide that took place probably hadn't
even heard of that he was instrumental
and trying to prevent that from
happening he went and at Great risk to
the government many times trying to
dissuade the Turkish politicians to from
deporting the Armenians which they
really weren't deporting them they were
killing them in the process of the
deportation of the Armenians he caught
tyus from Armenian deportation people he
died December the 18th 1915 from
tyus at his funeral an Armenian who
didn't believe anything he
believed not a chrisan listen to these
words and I'll be
done I have not seen
Jesus but I have seen Dr
shepher it's one thing to know you need
to love your neighbor it's another thing
to learn how to do it
let me
know if you really believe they'll know
we're Christians by our
love love them love your neighbor that's
these people
here it's those people out
there they'll know we're Christians by
our
love it's one thing to know something
it's another thing to learn
something I hope we learn
it and then we do kind of like him
nothing on that level Something much
smaller which maybe it'll just be this
simple
thing forgiving one of us when we get
offended just that
