Paul David trip in his gospel principle
said the mercy principle is no parent
gives Mercy better than one who is
convinced that he desperately needs it
himself so as the final message in this
series basically what we're advocating
for is that if you really want to have a
great relationship with your children
one of the critical things you've got to
develop is a sense of showing Mercy to
your children and ex you can't expect it
unless you give it so let's walk our way
through just some introductory ideas on
that how great are the mercies of God
well they're great enough that he even
introduces himself with these terms
Exodus 34:6 is the Lord God merciful and
gracious and
longsuffering that's the way God
describes
himself that's not the way we describe
him that's the way God sees himself you
may not think of him that way but you
would be wrong because he knows himself
better than we do obviously merciful and
gracious and longsuffering Deuteronomy 4
and: 31 says for the Lord your God is a
merciful god he will not forsake you nor
destroy you nor forget the Covenant of
your fathers which he swore to them
God isn't like us he doesn't just drop
you at the first sign of weakness or the
first mistake you make if he did we'd
all be done for it I suppose 2
Corinthians 1:3 said blessed be the God
and father of our Lord Jesus Christ the
Father the father of mercies and God of
All
Comfort um the father of mercies well
that would be true he's the father of
everything but particularly he's the
father of showing Mercy ain't that
interesting what would we know about
that probably nothing it probably was
long before this
world in Ephesians 2 and verse4 it says
God who is rich in
Mercy that means he's got an abundant
Supply in his heart to show Mercy to us
all Romans
9:15 I will have mercy on whomever I
will have mercy and I I think that's
good news that may not sound like good
news because it means he decides your
fate but I think that's a lot better
than somebody here deciding your fate if
we judged each other we would probably
be in fear and we probably should be in
greater fear but if he's extending that
Mercy I think there's reason to be
happy well what all depends on the
mercies of God being extended to us what
are the things that dep depend on that
one thing is the Earth for the earth to
survive as far as it has it's been by
the mercies of God and Psalm 145:9 it
says the earth I mean the Lord excuse me
is good to all and his Tender Mercies
are over all his works all the things
that he's made all the things he's
created he's shown Mercy to and of
course in light of what he's talking
about in that text he's main refer to
the things he's created in this realm
then of course life itself
is extended to US based upon Mercy Psalm
40:1 do not withhold your Tender Mercies
from me oh Lord let your loving kindness
and your truth continually preserve me
the way that I stay alive I am alive
today and you know this is true if you
just think just a moment I am alive
today because the mercy of
God there have been moments I could not
have been alive amen a't that true for a
all wasn't there a moment for every one
of us that we were right there it could
have
happened but it didn't
happen praise the Lord and then prayer
itself Psalm
28:6 says praise the Lord he has heard
my prayer for Mercy Amen to that so I
highly recommend praying for mercy on a
regular basis Lord have mercy on us amen
what does that mean that's a awareness
that you've done
wrong and God's forgiving you help we
all need help and it flows through the
mercy of God Hebrews 4:16 let us
therefore come boldly to the throne of
grace that we may obtain mercy and find
Grace to help in time of trouble we need
mercy first be forgiven and Grace to
receive a blessing when we should have
been
punished absolutely we need that help
and we all have moments that we need
help right sometimes just getting to the
end of the month with the money you got
repentance Isaiah 30 and: 18 therefore
the Lord will wait he will wait that he
may be gracious to you he's waiting on
you to get right amen ain't that good to
hear he waits on us to get right that he
may be gracious to you and therefore he
will be exalted that he may have mercy
on you he he knows you're going to
praise him for this for the Lord is a
God of Justice
blessed are all those who wait for him
and then Heaven itself I love this
passage we don't talk about this much in
light of Mercy but Psalm 236 surely
goodness and mercy shall follow me all
the days of my life and I will dwell in
the house of the Lord forever God's
goodness but I don't get to go into the
house of the Lord forever unless his
Mercy follows me because I know I've not
been what I ought to be right I need his
Mercy mercy so yeah everything just
about we know depends on the mercies of
God and then if Mercy is recipal and I
believe it is how important is it that
we show Mercy particularly to our
children ladies and
gentlemen maybe we haven't thought of
Mercy in light of showing it to our
children but our children need our
Mercy yes you need to hold them
accountable
yes you don't need to hold him
accountable yeah both
things in Matthew 5 and: 7 blessed are
the
merciful why for they shall obtain Mercy
it is critical that you be merciful to
your
children because God your father will
deal with
you and he will look at how you've dealt
with your children he is your father
how have you dealt with your
children Matthew 6:2 and 14 and 15 it
says and forgive us our debts as we
forgive our debtors that's in the prayer
and then verse 14 for if you forgive men
their trespasses your heavenly father
will also forgive you but if you do not
forgive men their trespasses neither
will your father forgive your trespasses
I think Mercy is dependent upon Mercy
it's reciprocal if you want to receive
Mercy you must learn to give it Matthew
18 verses 21-35 this is that Parable as
you well know of the man who owed an
exorbitant amount he would never be able
to pay it back probably in this lifetime
but he he says you know give me time and
I'll pay you back and his master has
mercy upon him and and lets him off and
then he immediately goes out and
throttles his fellow uh servant who only
owes him a small amount of money small
amount of money verse 32 says then his
master after he had called him said to
him you Wicked servant I forgave you all
that debt because you begged me should
you not also have had compassion on your
fellow servant just as I had pity on you
you Wicked mother you Wicked father I
had compassion on you and saved you why
didn't you have compassion that day upon
your child why did you have to speak to
them that way why did you have to go so
far that stings me I know I've gone too
far there have been times and I've said
things I shouldn't have said I was
meaner than I needed to
be I was harsher than I had to
be in fact I've had to apologize my
children before
James
2:3 judgment is without Mercy to the one
who has shown no
mercy and mercy triumps over
judgment I don't want to be guilty of
not showing any Mercy amen that's
judgment is without Mercy on the one who
shown no
mercy Romans 12 and ver8 he who shows
Mercy with cheerfulness that's what we
want us to do the Lord wants us to show
Mercy with cheerfulness you know the the
Bible says in Corinthian second
Corinthians that he loves a cheerful
Giver you know why because he's a
cheerful Giver God's a cheerful
giver and so he wants us to show Mercy
give Mercy cheerfully
not begrudgingly cheerfully knowing what
good it might
do Matthew 10:8 freely you have received
freely give so that's talking about
miraculous ability maybe in that text
but probably about salvation and the
truth that you received but it's a true
principle across the board if you've
received it freely I mean you didn't
earn Mercy if you could earn Mercy you
don't need Mercy right so you didn't
earn it God extended his Mercy to you
and he extended it to me freely you've
received freely give rather be too
merciful because you're going to answer
for
it Luke 12:48 to whom much is given much
will be required if you've been given a
lot of Mercy in your life anybody been
given a lot of Mercy in their
life you should be given a lot God of
Mercy
back Paul David trip has these list of
things I'll read through them the list
he gave 12 ideas for applying parenting
Mercy principles let me read through
them real quickly look for every
opportunity to shower your children with
Grace be careful to help your children
see the heart behind the
behavior be patient committed patiently
committed
to the
process Point your children every day to
Jesus humbly accept your limits remind
your heart each morning to rest in the
presence and the power of your heavenly
father willingly confess your faults
children need to hear them root all that
you
require say and do in the wonderful
wisdom of scripture rooted all in the
scriptures and don't treat opportunities
like hassles he was talking about that
on the film
today be slow to anger and quick to
forgive heard that somewhere
else pray before during and after when
they've done something wrong you got to
deal with them I understand it you got
to deal with it bring a little truth to
the point
absolutely but pray about it remembering
yourself and do all these things over
and over again you know all scripture
guides Us in my opinion to be merciful I
don't think some of it does and so I
think it it rightfully applies to
Parenting I think Trip's right on the
spot with this we just want to look at
three ideas and then we' be done tonight
three simple ideas that I think we need
to Encompass in this study I mean we
that whole Psalm 103 is a great Psalm to
read the whole thing but y'all like to
get home sooner or later tonight so
number
one the height of the mercy principles
in parenting it said in verse
11 for as the heavens are high above the
Earth so great is his Mercy toward those
who fear
Him now this is a parallel to the other
Passage since it's about Mercy you may
not realize it but you need to go let me
encourage you to get your Bibles and
read Isaiah 5354 and 55 in context
together if you don't get it that way
read 5554 53 in context together and you
will see sandwiched in there Mercy Mercy
Mercy Mercy Mercy Mercy Mercy Mercy
Mercy in all of those chapters but
listen to Isaiah 55 and and how many
times I've talked about this before but
how many times I read this passage in
the past and I thought it was talking
about how smart God was what he knew and
that's true God's knowledge is infinite
but that's not really what it's talking
about Isaiah 55:8 says for my thoughts
are not your thoughts nor are your ways
my ways says the Lord for as the heavens
are higher than the earth where have I
read that
before the heavens are higher than the
Earth Earth so are my ways higher than
yours and my thoughts than your thoughts
That's How Much Greater God's Mercy is
to our mercy so you may think you're a
merciful person you're
not you're a person that's why you're
not you're a
human God's Not
Human he's merciful we're trying to
learn it we're struggling we want to
we're so busy trying to hold people
accountable and get it get the other
person squared away and we're not busy
trying to get ourselves squared away and
so because we don't see ourselves we
only see your thing and I don't see that
I'm a bad guy then but if you pay
attention to what you've done wrong
before you start paying attention to
what somebody else has done wrong it's
easier to show
Mercy Isaiah 54 verse 78 uses this in
the context that little sandwich I was
talking about between Isaiah 53 and 55
54 says in verse 7 for a mere moment I
have forsaken you but with great mercies
I will gather you with a little wrath I
hid my face from you for a
moment but with
Everlasting kindness I will have mercy
on you says the Lord your Redeemer
Isaiah 53 as you know is the
substitutionary sacrifice of Christ on
the cross for all of us so literally the
m message the message is the height of
God's Mercy is as high as you can see
the skies the limit for his
Mercy is yours like that is mine
no but think on that the next time
you've got to deal with a problem with
your child I understand they've got to
be dealt with things that they've done
wrong absolutely you've got to somehow
bring them into
line but at the same time sometimes you
just need to let it
go number
two the width of the mercy principle and
parenting it says in verse 12 for as far
as the East is from the West so far has
he removed our transgressions from you
now this works as long as we live on a
globe but if you believe in the Flat
Earth you won't understand this one uh
but as long as you understand we live on
a globe then as far if you go east as
far as you want uh you never end up
going west if you go west you will never
end up going east it's forever apart
East is forever apart from West North is
not forever apart from the south you can
go so far north that you end up going
south and you can go so far south that
you end up going north but you can never
go so far east that you end up going
west just never happens so as far as the
East is from the West that's how far he
removes our transgressions from us if we
could get a hint on that when we're
dealing with the failures of our
children and our children will fail us
they will disappoint us try not to make
it so
serious
serious but not so serious because you
need to be able to remove it not just
put it backwards you know when it's as
far as the East is from the West you
it's hard to call it back up is it
when it's forever a distance away Psalm
10 Psalm 75: 6 and 7 talking about this
East West thing it says for exaltation
comes neither from the East nor from the
West nor from the South but God is the
judge he puts down one and exalts
another really what it's really saying
is you know that and that it's not going
to save you that's not going to save you
because it's God's going to judge us
and if he's the one that's removing sins
for far as the East is from the West we
need to try to learn from him Psalm 1072
and3 says let the redeemed of the Lord
say so whom he has redeemed from the
hand of the
enemy that's a that's a great sermon
right
there right there the redeemed of the
Lord ought to say so amen we ought to
just say so we've been redeemed don't be
shy about it I'm not saying preach it so
loud that you irritate everybody around
you but don't be so shy that you never
bring it up amen bring it up at work you
don't have to do don't let it dominate
your work where you can't do your job
and your boss gets mad at you but don't
ever be so shy as you never say I'm
trying to live for
Christ but he goes on to say and
gathered out of the lands from the East
and from the west from the north and
from the south so that's where all the
people are coming from because that's
where they sinned they did wrong our
sins just are so
heavy but as far as the East is from the
West one can go north and end up going
south but you can't go east and end up
going west so if we could learn this
little simple Mercy principle I've
forgiven you son I've forgiven you
daughter I've forgiven you
husband I've forgiven you wife
and by the way it may
sound arrogant and even pompous to
them but I will tell you people need to
hear
it PE people need to hear I've forgiven
that let's not talk about that I've
forgiven
that
why because you want to take a look at
the stuff I had to be forgiven
for you want to see the list it's a long
one let me get the index out cuz we
don't have time to talk about the whole
thing
right East is from the West the width of
the mercy principle in parenting and
finally the excess of the mercy
principle in parenting it says in verse
13 as a father pies his children and I'm
grateful to know that that's pretty much
a standard I think it's
true I think fathers I know it's easy to
believe that
in the world especially we live in
because men are considered all toxic
right now I understand
that but generally speaking a father
will pity his
children as a father pies his children
so the Lord pities those who fear
Him
pity a father pies his children so I it
it sounds like a father has a special
relationship with his children right or
ly
should Malachi 3:17 says they shall be
mine says the Lord of hosts on that day
that I make them my jewels and I will
spare them as a man spares his own son
who serves
him so not only does a father pity his
children but his kids try to do what the
father says to do he spares his
children now you listen to that really
good
he
spares his sons even when they've done
wrong but you haven't heard the excess
yet haven't gotten to it now we're
getting to it Romans
8:32 he who did not
spare I thought we just learned that a
father pities his children and that a
father will spare his child his son he
who did not spare his own son what wait
on I thought a father does that I
thought a father will spare his child he
who did not spare his own son but
delivered and this isn't he just watched
it no no no God didn't just watch what
happened to
Jesus you hear
me this was his
work he who did not spare his own own
son but delivered him
up God put him
there he used wicked men to do it but he
did it but delivered him up for us all
how shall he not with him also freely
give us all
things the most
important people in a father's life
that's a good man is his
children he spares
them he pies
them but he didn't pity his
son he didn't spare his son because he
pied
you who had done so many wrong he had
done no
wrong he didn't pity him
he ped
you he spared
you that's an
excess and here's the point what would
he not freely give
you if he gave you the best of Heaven
his own
son what could you ask of him that would
be more than
that oh you can't ask that in prayer
brother that's asking too much are you
serious you couldn't think of a thing
bigger than what he
did you could it's so excessive an act
of Mercy you can't even think of
it Matthew 3:17 his beloved Son this is
my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased
hear you him this is my beloved son kill
him so that I can save all these rattle
traps that have done
wrong there it
is if we could think like that about our
children so look at it the height of the
mercy principle is parenting as the
heavens are high above the Earth let's
try to reach that the width of the mercy
principle with our children as far as
the East is from the West let's try to
live according to that and forgive
things on that level the excess
principle of mercy and that is not
sparing
Jesus he wasn't spared for your children
so what I'm what I really want to get at
now for just a moment or two is that we
need to show them that you can forgive
them because you've been forgiven and
you want to hold on to them
your children need to feel like you
don't want them to
go instead of you can't wait for them to
go now don't get me wrong at about 18
it's kind of mutually agreed it's time
but okay I get
it you know
but after Lee's surrender during the
Civil War Lincoln was speaking to a
large crowd from the balcony of the
White House
house and he told the crowd that was
gathered there about his policy it was
going to be called uh a considerate
policy where he wanted to show
consideration to the South but at the
end of the speech Senator Harland spoke
up what shall we do with the
Rebels the vindictive crowd shouted back
hang them
all
Tad was 11 years
old Tad
Lincoln turned to his father and said no
papa
no not hang
them hang on to them
Lincoln said Tad has
it we must hang on to
them hold on to your
children don't run them
off show them not only that you can
forgive them but don't embarrass them
then don't get me wrong I'm an
embarrassment no matter what I do to my
children you know at a certain point
they don't want to see be seen with me
walking through a store you know I get
it I look weird or something I don't
know what it
is the years after the death of
President Calvin kulage this story was
told about the early days of his
presidency you may never heard this
story he was in a hotel room and he was
suddenly awoken some noise in the room
he woke up sat up and there's a burglar
in his
room and apparently come through the
window or something and it was go he was
going through his
pockets in his uh
trousers and Calvin kulage spoke up said
uh uh please don't take my Watch
chain he's kind of scared the burglar he
says don't take my Watch chain please it
contains an engraved charm that I want
to keep please don't take it scared the
guy the thief went real quiet didn't say
anything for a minute and
uh finally he said to
him uh why are you doing
this and it turns out he was a college
student and he had no money to pay his
hotel
bill he didn't even have enough money to
get a ticket to get back to the
campus and he was just looking for some
change where could get
back coolage stood up went over to his
billfold took his bill foro from him
counted out $32 lot of money then
$32 chunk of
money passed it to the guy and he was
the young boy is just dazzled he does
know what to think he's handing him this
$32 and he says now this is alone Young
young man this is alone I expect you to
pay me
back and he's going yes sir yes sir and
he said but don't go out that door the
Secret Service will get you go out this
way and so he allowed him to leave and
nobody ever heard the story
even by the way he paid him back
so hold on to
them try not to embarrass them these are
acts of Mercy but one more don't just
show them that you forgive them never
hate your
children never hate
them Timothy Keller who just passed away
not long ago he had a story told about a
guy named Hashim
Garrett had the Hashem was 15 years old
living with his mother hanging out on
the streets of
Brooklyn and he was shot by a gang a
rival gang six times and he laid par
paralyzed took him a year and the next
year in the hospital basically trying to
get well but the whole time he was
tempted to fasz about
Revenge Revenge consumed him he said he
wrote this later Revenge consumed me all
I could think about was I just wait till
I get better just wait till I see that
kid and I'll get
him but when he was lying there on the
sidewalk immediately after the
shooting he hadn't been serving the lord
at all but he started crying out for God
I guess you know when you're in a
foxhole everybody cries out to God and
he started crying out to God for
help and he he said it was surprising
suddenly a Tranquility came over him it
was like God was saying it's going to be
okay during his rehab
time for a long time he wanted revenge
and then one day he said it suddenly
struck him here's what he said in his
book he actually ended up writing a
book you know I shot a kid for no reason
now this was before this he's 15 when he
did did this I shot a kid for no reason
except that a friend told me to do
it and I wanted to prove how tough I
was six months later I'm shot by
somebody because his friend told him to
do it to
me that thought electrified
me I couldn't feel Superior anymore when
I finally realized what I had done we
were both sin ERS we had both done wrong
we both deserved a
punishment but we really needed
forgiveness Hashem said then in the end
I decided to forgive I felt God had
saved my life for a reason and then I
had better fulfill that purpose and I
knew I could never go back out there and
harm someone I was done with that
mindset and that life that goes with it
I came to see that I had to let go and
stop
hating so our children need us to hold
on to them they need us to never
embarrass them and to never hate them
they need to know that there's somebody
that's willing to forgive them of all
the world the world may not the world
may not but we need to find a way I need
that kind of Mercy amen I I I want on
the day of judgment
I need that kind of
mercy and if I'm going to get that kind
of Mercy I need to learn to give
it and if I expect my father to forgive
me what do I need to do first and
foremost oh yeah out here I need to do
it out here oh yeah yeah yeah yall my
brothers and sisters in Christ
absolutely the people of the world
absolutely but where do you do it first
worst the hardest place it is to do it
in your own home with the people who
hurt you the
worst
that's that's the place because if I can
do it
there then my father and do it
then come to his mercy and his grace
it's all we really got let your kids
learn Mercy from
you that's the last lesson in this
series it may be the most important one
of all I know the last one rest learning
to let let things go yeah this is
learning to let offenses go
