okay so someone wrote this and I thought
this was pretty good uh
parenting is listening to a child
sharing all their many
observations they want to
share while sharing a toilet stall with
their mother inside a public
restroom you've ever been in a public
restroom when your child wants to talk
about everything everything they're
seeing now you know what it's like to be
apparent um Paul trip stories that's
where I began because you wanted the
longer version you're frustrated because
for some reason on this particular
Tuesday night your 2-year-old daughter
has decided that she will not under any
circumstances pressure or threat eat her
peas you're not asking her to eat poison
their peas silly little round green
vegetable orbs what in the world is in
her mind right now why do these little
tasks have to be so hard or this
story you can't believe it another note
from his teacher this is the fifth note
in three weeks and he's only in
kindergarten for some reason he won't
stop talking in class during the moments
when he's not supposed to he talks when
the teacher talks he talks when other
students are trying to talk he talks
with his mouthful during lunchtime he
talks his way through his nap time he
talks when you're trying to talk to him
about talking too much and you thought
that finally sending him to school would
simplify your life Paul Trump goes on
it's been one of those days you've
convinced you're convinced it's a
sibling conspiracy against you it feels
as if your children have plotted
together to make this day particularly
difficult it feels as if it's you you
against the Legion of rebellious ones
you've lost your patience too many times
you said and done embarrassing things
you raised your voice and made ominous
threats but nothing has seemed to help
you've lost control of your own house
and silently and with a bit of guilt you
wish for the simple days of
before Paul trp goes on to tell you just
had one of those best conversations
you've ever had as a parent it's hard to
imagine that an 11-year-old could be so
deep so philosophical you were caught
off guard you had no idea that in this
passing moment time would stop and
profound considerations would be on the
table you didn't feel very prepared you
stumbled over your words you hoped that
you'd say what you said was helpful and
understandable and wise you hop the way
you said things would open up more
conversations you just wish an alarm
would have gone off telling you that
things were about to get
serious he goes on to tell this
illustration she seems embarrassed by
you it really does hurt she used to run
into your arms for comfort and love she
loved to hold your hand and she skipped
her way through the mall she would dress
up in your clothes and pretend to be you
she'd get on a stool in the kitchen and
help you cook dinner she would run to
you with that great big smile when she
won the ribbon at gymnastics now she
wants you to drop her off at the mall
and ask you please not to come in she
doesn't really want you to pick her up
from school and when you do she wants
you to park down the street she doesn't
bring many friends home and when she
does they hide in her room out of sight
and separate from you you want her to
run up to you and bury your head in your
chest and say I love you mommy like she
used to but
you don't think she will or this story
you've taken them to a movie it's the
one thing you enjoy doing as a family it
was buil as a fun family comedy but it's
been filled with sexual innuendos from
beginning to end you didn't catch the
last part of the movie because your mind
had wandered away thinking of what you
should say how you should handle what
your children were exposed to how much
did they understand if you talk to them
will you just be be opening a can of
worms is it time to have a very Frank
talk about sex are you ready are they
ready how will you do it when will you
do it you wish you had a script to
follow or this
story as you carry the final bit of his
Stu up to his dorm room you tell
yourself that he's a good kid but you
really wonder if he's ready you look at
him and you don't see a university
student you see a leaky noosed scuffed
kned six-year-old begging to spend the
night with a friend he did okay in high
school no drugs sex or jail time he was
determined to go away to college
somewhere new somewhere different from
home you worry that his dorm has double
the students that were in his high
school the girls walking around the
hallway of his co-ed dorm makes you
uncomfortable you want to grab him throw
him and his pile of stuff into the car
and get out of there as fast as you can
before you lose him completely he tells
you not to worry that he will be okay
but it doesn't help you pray with him
before you leave but you're still a
wreck you ask him to call later but you
don't think he
will or this story she finished College
she's come back home while she looks for
a job you thought that your parenting
days were over but they're clearly not
the state of her room her choice of
friends and the way she spends her time
makes you wonder if she is ready to be a
full-fledged adult You' mixed emotions
you loved having your house and your
time back again but you missed being a
mom she's back and it's different you
know she still needs you she'll need
guidance as she makes her launch but
you're not sure she realizes it every
night you try to go to bed and sleep at
the normal time but you never really get
to sleep until you hear the door and
know she's home you're tired of being a
parent and thankful that she's home all
at the same time or this story you're
haunted by regret you don't want to be
but you are not about anything big but
about all those little moments of fail
you remember the little promises you
made that you got too busy to keep the
moments when when you yelled when you
should have been listening you remember
how hard it was to have children and be
fair and how often you failed you
remember falling asleep at recital and
hope they never knew you remember making
ridiculous threats and hope they don't
remember as well as you do you remember
that time you spent uh you stopped the
van and made them all get out and told
them that you wouldn't let them back in
until they could get along with one
another you remember you'd like to be
free of regret but you're
not that's kind of
parenting it's full of all of that and
more turn with me to First
Corinthians 1 Corinthians chapter
7 just want to read a little section
before we really get into the meat of
the lesson 1 Corinthians 7:1 17- 24 and
the reason for this is you need to
understand something about your
situation if you're a
parent maybe you haven't understood it
yet begins in verse 17 But as God has
distributed to each one as the Lord has
called each one so let him
walk and so I ordained in all the
churches was anyone called while
circumcised let him not come
uncircumcised was anyone called while
uncircum cised let him not be
circumcised circumcision is nothing and
uncircumcision is nothing but keeping
the Commandments of God is what matters
Let each one remain in the same calling
in which he was
called were you called while a slave do
not be concerned about it but if you can
be made free rather use it for he is
called in the Lord while a slave is the
Lord's Freed Man likewise he who is
called while fre free is Christ slave
you were bought at a price do not become
slaves of men Brethren listen to this
carefully let each one remain with God
in that state in which he was
called whether you know it or
not you were called if you're a parent
if you're a parent you were called to be
a
parent it's a gift of
God it come from the Lord you were
called to be a parent called parents is
one of the most significant callings
that could ever be laid upon the
shoulder of
man it is enough to almost make you want
to run away and hide when you realize
the responsibility of it it is enough to
make you almost weak in the knees if you
really realize the responsibility of it
it is almost insane for anyone to
actually think that they could take this
role on
it is delusional to think that you're
actually ever prepared that you're
actually ever
ready it is so unbelievable that you
almost think that God made a mistake by
making human beings parents the kind of
responsibility that it is it is either a
thing of the highest value to you or
else it is
not if you love possessions too much
your tension
over your possessions can literally
drive your children
away if you love success too much you
may abandon your child to become a
success if you love church too much you
may drive your children
away making them feel like you're
ridiculous in how devoted you
are there is nothing in
life in the life of any child that is
more needed than a
called
parent seeking to be only God's
tool pointing to Grace to help form
their soul I you think about
that God has if you understand you're a
called parent God has opened your eyes
to his existence his presence his Rule
and his is Grace and God has revealed
himself to you not just for you but for
your
children God has met
you so that you would be ready to
introduce him to
them that's on
you that's what you're called to do God
has forgiven
you God has transformed you
God has delivered you to save you yes
but to save the life and the soul of
your
child God has opened your eyes to his
grace so that you could maybe open their
eyes to his
grace God has given you moments every
day to point to him whether it's the
sunrise or the sunset are the beautiful
clouds are the color of the leaves are
the funny little ants crawling around in
your
kitchen everything can be used to point
to him and his grace no human gives
Grace better than a parent who humbly
admits he or she desperately needs the
grace himself or herself first if you
can admit how desperate you need Grace
then you can share it but if you don't
think like that they will not think like
that we are to follow the good examples
in the Old Testament it's what we're
going to look at tonight so I want you
to turn to Deuteronomy chapter 6 in just
a moment we are to follow the good
examples and the good teachings of what
we would call called parents because
since parenting is a gift of God and you
are called as a follower of God to reach
people for God then obviously the most
important people that you ever reach are
your own children Romans 15:4 says what
things were written before were written
for our
learning and so
basically uh we through the patience and
comfort of the scriptures might have
hope when we finally recognize that in 1
Corinthians 10: 6 and 11 it says these
things became our examples all these
stories of the Old Testament and then
verse 11 says these things happened as
examples and that they were written for
our admonition or our warning in 2
Timothy 3: 16 and 17 that passage is not
about the New Testament scriptures even
though obviously that's true of them too
but this is written during the time the
new testament's being written and so all
the New Testament wasn't written at this
point so this is mainly speaking of the
Old Testament writings when it says all
scripture is given by the inspiration of
God and is profitable for Doctrine for
reprove for correction for instruction
into righteousness that the man of God
may be complete thoroughly equipped for
every good work why do I emphasize that
because some people in the church
particularly have run into it from time
to time only want to hear New Testament
teaching on what you're supposed to do
in your daily walk that's not a Biblical
concept but it is become a concept you
often hear by members of the church I
want you to understand yes you're called
to be parents if you're a parent or if
you've been a parent your kids are grown
you were called to do that but let look
at what the scriptures actually taught
those parents to do because it is a
pattern for us and we just read proof
that it is a pattern okay so now we've
gotten past the long part of this sermon
this is going to be the short part of
the sermon number
one call parents put God in their
hearts this is not what you do to
them this is what you do to yourself if
you're a called parent and you really
want to make a difference in your
child's life it says in verse four here
o Israel the Lord Our God the Lord is
one you shall love the Lord your God
with all your heart with all your soul
and with all your strength but verse six
listen to verse six and these words
which I command you today shall be in
your heart you cannot give away what you
do not
have they will never have God in their
heart unless you first have God in your
heart that's your first calling to have
God in your
heart and only you can answer that
question do you love him with all your
heart is he the most important thing now
on a Sunday night group I'd have to say
most of you that's probably
true but it doesn't mean it is true it's
not a maxim number
two called parents put God in their
words
it changes what you say every day verse
seven you shall teach them diligently to
your
children and shall talk that's a
critical difference there's teaching
which is
important and you shall talk of them
that means just in casual
conversation your conversation should be
filled with the word of God and the
truth of God and shall talk of them when
you sit in your house when you walk by
the way when you lie down and when you
rise up as a called parent whose most
important job is to form a saved soul in
their child that's the most you can't
make them do it but you can lead them to
water that's your most important job you
don't have a job bigger than that oh I
got to go make a living that's an
important job that's a really important
job but if you do that and your child
doesn't come to know Christ you have
failed this is your calling this is what
you're to do and so number one put it in
your heart number two put it in your
words let your mouth be filled with good
things from the word of God and not
curse words not smart alic remarks not
hateful talk let it be fashioned with
the word of
God number
three called parents put God on their
bodies and that's a strange one is it
Deuteronomy
6:8 you shall bind them as a sign on
your hand and they shall be as frontlets
between your eyes now what he's talking
about in this text so you understand the
Hebrew vernacular right here he's
talking about what we call felies they
make broad their felies you remember the
statement in the new test
Matthew 23 Flores were commanded in the
Old Testament okay what were fla trees
there were two fla trees that every true
Jewish man woman could wear these are
what you wore When you pray they were
little leather
boxes with leather
straps you made seven laps around your
head and tucked it in and it f right
there you put the other one right here
on your left arm you make seven laps
around your arm inside those Flores was
what was called the Shima right for God
it's the name it's the name Hashim means
name and so you're honoring the name of
God in this text there's one Lord right
that's what he says in verse four here o
Israel the Lord Our God the Lord is one
and you shall love the Lord your God
with all your heart with all your soul
with all your strength at least that
much was in all of those those who were
got really fancy would put the Ten
Commandments write it very small it
would be on parchment and insert it in
those little boxes the little boxes were
emblematic to be like the Ark of the
Covenant so you have the Ten
Commandments in the Shima here Ten
Commandments in Shima here why left arm
cause your heart's on the left side of
your body body so when you prayed it was
closest to your heart you see that you
put the word of God literally close to
your heart you put it in your head so
when you prayed You' pull your toite
which is a prayer Shaw over your head
and you would pray underneath that when
they call it their closet you pull that
over and you became a tabernacle
yourself so as the tab everybody could
couldn't Gather in the Tabernacle cuz a
million people they won't fit in a tent
there's not a tent that'll hold a
million people so they pull this over
they're in their tent in the wilderness
and they're praying got it the point
that I want you to get
is ladies you can wear a bracelet that
says Jesus you put a cross on it you can
have a little thing that says what would
Jesus do I believe they used to have
those all the time some of you men could
do that
you want to go really deep you can even
tattoo yourself but the point is is that
you should your kids should see that
you're not ashamed of the things we
believe do you see that do you not know
that that look weird putting a box on
you haven't you seen the pictures they
look as weird as they could be you put
that on your hand you put that on your
arm you look weird you pull the sh out
you look weird don't be afraid to look
weird to your kid because the number one
thing in your life should be
God so show it somehow on your body if
you can number
next cuz they did number next called
parents put God in their houses look at
verse nine you shall write them on the
doorpost of your house and on your Gates
now these they did this with what's
called a muuza you ever heard that term
muuza you know what a muuza is those of
you who lived in heavily Jewish
neighborhoods probably have seen mouas
do you know what a mza is how many of
you know what a mza is raise your hand
you can raise your hand dur in church
look like Pentecostals but okay so raise
your hand so here's the bottom line it's
a little dad that fits so you walk up to
the
door next time you go up to a Jewish
house look in the right hand corner
right up there there'll be a little
metal thing right and in that little
metal thing is at least at least the
Shima if not the Ten Commandments in
there roll tightly into a tight little
roll and every time they go in they
touch
it so if you're a Jewish person you know
what's on that door if you're dedicated
you know what that is your house is a
place where the Lord our God is number
one well we might not do that because
we're not specifically commanded to do
that although that would be a good thing
to do but you could put up
signs you could have something written
on a wall you could have a little plaque
you could put up
sayings do something because if all it
does is advertise Budweiser on your wall
I don't think you're sending this signal
you think you sending to your kids if
there's nothing cool if it's always the
cool stuff the bucks or are all over
everything but nothing up there about
the
Lord think about it what message are you
really sending I'm not saying there's
anything wrong with the Bucks they're
fine you know it's just like lightning
you know nuts about the lightning too so
that's great
but call parents put it on their house
number
next call parents put God in their lives
if you really are serious about this you
put it in your life look at Deuteronomy
6 I'm just going to read Verse 18 for
the sake of time but it's verses 10
through 18 really the explanation is
there but we're going to go quickly
because I've already gone long and you
shall do what is right and good in the
sight of the Lord that it may be well
with you and that you may go in and
possess the good land of which the Lord
swore to your father
do what is right and good in the sight
of the Lord if you want to make sure
your kids go to
church you can't be a
liar you can't have
affairs you can't cheat and
steal they have got to see that you mean
business that in your daily walk you are
living the Ten Commandments if you will
that's who you are you live that kind of
life that's the kind of life you should
live always loving others being kind to
everybody they've got to see it in your
life that which is right and good in the
sight of the Lord there have been many
people that have been raised by parents
that did most the other things we've
talked about and then they came to
actually living it and they didn't and
their kids saw hypocrit
and they
quit number
next this is critical called parents put
God in their answers let me tell you
what's going to happen if you're a
parent they're going to ask questions
they're going to ask questions about
what you believe they're going to ask
questions about what you do they're
going to ask more questions you want to
deal with there's going to be questions
coming out your ears at times time
they're going to ask all kinds of things
and you may say too much
but what you must always do is what
verse 20 here says when your son ask you
in time to come saying what is the
meaning of the testimonies now they're
talking about the Ten Commandments here
but are the statutes or the sheima
that's in this text what is the meaning
of the testimonies the statutes and the
judgments which the Lord Our God has
commanded
you we we have got to be people who
answer we have got to be willing to
explain you've got to know why why did
Jesus die on a cross you got to study it
got to think about it and have an answer
why why do we go to
church you've got to deal with the
questions why do you read your Bible why
do we believe in God those questions
don't just rub them off and say ah
they'll get over it no they
won't gospel principles for parenting
suggest that we are to be called
parents that means we put God in our
hearts in our
words on our bodies in our houses in our
lives and in all the answers that we try
to give to stand up for the Lord Ed ster
who was the director of LifeWay research
LifeWay used to be uh bookstore around
if you know that uh he wrote an article
titled parents and church can help teens
stay in church here's what the article
said teens this is not the whole article
but it's the part that I think are
significant teens who at age 17 have
parents who are authentic examples of
Christian faith proactive and consistent
in living out their faith also are more
likely to keep attending as young adults
did you hear
that they see you doing it they're more
likely to do it across the board 20%
more of those who stayed indicated and
I'm talking about young people who now
left home and now living on their own
they stay in church 20% more of them who
stayed in indicated they had parents or
family members didn't have to be their
parents could be grandparents uncles
aunts whoever indicated had parents or
family members who discussed spiritual
things gave them spiritual guidance and
even prayed together with them stener
went on to uh explain or speak he said
despite the conflicts that often occur
during these years because as you know
teenagers can fight with you right they
will argue with you despite the
conflicts which by the way is a good
thing because you want them to leave
home and it gets to the boiling point
where you're kind of glad they do
despite the conflicts that often occur
during these years it is difficult to
understate the impact of a solid family
involved in the faith community on the
future involvement of teens and that
isn't something that can be faked you
can't cover it and act like it's
real Chuck Swindle or Charles
Swindle tells a story in a book called
stress fractures about when he found his
schedule getting too busy you ever been
there his schedule got so busy he didn't
have time for anything uh he had way too
many commitments and too few hours and
two few days to get it done and in the
process of really getting really really
really really really really busy
the busier he got he got nervous he got
tense he felt irritated most of the time
he hated unexpected interruptions during
the day uh long before things really
blew up to where they could have been he
was always at this hurried pace of a
lifestyle and it was getting more
hurried but just before it
became
unbearable he said I distinctly remember
after supper one evening
the words of our younger daughter
daughter
Colleen Colleen wanted to tell me
something important that had happened to
her at school that
day and she began hurriedly saying Daddy
I want to tell you something and I'll
tell you really really
fast and suddenly you realized her
frustration and I answered honey you can
tell me and you do not have to tell me
really really fast say it
slowly listen to her response he said
I'll never forget what she said she said
then listen
slowly you got to have time for
them they're never not important they're
the most important thing you
do the parental calling principle is
this nothing is more important in your
life than being one of God's tools to
help form a human
soul there's nothing more
important maybe the place to start is
putting God in our heart since that's
what the text suggested right that's the
first place to go so if you're looking
for Parental
principles gospel parental principles
are live it
live
it and understand that's your calling to
live it and present it they learn about
grace through you if they never see a
gracious individual guess what they
learn you don't really believe in
grace
oo you got to be gracious if you believe
in
grace
right so that's the long version amen
praise the lord it's over so so if
you're here tonight you're not right
with the Lord we want to give you an
opportunity to always make yourself
right with the Lord if there's something
we can do whether to repent publicly or
to uh repent and be baptized tonight
that's always available but don't forget
if you're a
parent God called you to that position
and he will make you qualified if you'll
listen to him
