second to last class I believe next week
will be the final um the final class
before the new quarter starts um so so
today's we're going to be looking at um
at rebellion and obedience um might even
follow a little bit of kind of what
we've what we learned about this morning
and spoke about so um we're going to
begin as I like to with the negative
right I like to end off on a positive
note um or at least try to so uh we're
going to start off with Rebellion um so
rebellion and
psychology so uh basically we can see it
as a psychological reaction right so uh
it's emotions that arise things such as
anger annoyance uh maybe even Panic
whenever uh somebody feels that their
freedom is threatened um and then that
can lead them to rebel against uh
whatever force that is that is uh making
making them the threatening Force um
another way that we see uh Rebellion is
through identity formation uh this is
one that we're probably a little bit
more accustom to uh seeing teens Rebel
or remembering our our teen years um
rebelling when forming an identity uh
this can be against parents or authority
and it's done in a way to form uh their
own beliefs and values um so they they
kind of go on this idea that it's it's a
good thing for there to be that little
bit of of rebellious to really come into
our own and and find out who we are and
our own identity um however obviously
that can uh grow and grow and become
worse and and it can be more than just a
simple like teen rebellious phase and
actually become full-fledged like adult
and and lifelong Rebellion um and then
uh there's rejection can lead to
Rebellion so the feeling um feeling
rejected or Feeling disapproved by
others um right so you ever did
something and you thought it was really
cool or good and your parents didn't and
then you kind of rebel against because
of that um could be friends could be a
boss right you could be doing something
at work then you feel disapproved of so
you just rebel against that and say all
right fine I'm not going to do anything
um or I'm just going to you know keep
doing what I'm doing
um and then there's peer influence so
others around us are rebelling and and
doing stuff um and then that can lead to
group think so we see that and then it
influences others to follow especially
if the Rebellion is for U maybe a kind
of like 50/50
um we can see that a lot with all kinds
of stuff in in our in our lives right
just out in the world we can see this
idea of there's a small group of people
who kind of start a rebellion that then
grows and grows and grows and then it
becomes a movement becomes a um whatever
else there is so that's a that's a
pretty big one for why we can see
rebellion and then the last one uh
perceived inequality so feelings of
being marginalized or there's a sense of
inequality in our life can lead to
uh Rebellion so I kind of want to go
back through these again um but this
time through like a a scriptural lens um
not quite diving into the verses yet but
just taking a look through like a
Christian uh mindset Christian Life how
this can these ideas can lead to even
potential like Rebellion against God
right because that's that's ultimately
what we what we don't want to happen um
but unfortunately does so psychological
reactions so if we feel that our freedom
right is being is being threatened
um that can lead to these these feelings
of the anger annoyance and panic right
and that can happen largely if we feel
that God is threatening the freedom that
he's the one who gave it to us right um
but if we feel that he's requiring or
asking too much of me and it goes
against what I want to do which is my
freedom because I can choose it can lead
to dis anger annoyance and then
Rebellion off of what he has said
identity formation um if we try to for
our identity outside of Christ and
outside of God it can lead to a
rebellion against his word and against
him um which is which is not good
rejection right if if we feel that we've
been rejected or disapproved by God
whether it be a punishment for a sin
that we've committed um whether it be
that things just aren't going quite
exactly how we wanted it to in life um
and we attribute that back to God that
can leave uh lead us to Rebellion
against him out of feelings of rejection
uh pure INF influence right if we're
hanging out with the wrong crowds and
they're just um they just talk bad about
God all the time they they they put him
down you know this is all fantasy and
and you guys are crazy for believing it
um and they're rebelling and and we
start falling trap into that we might
want to not be the the sore thumb
sticking out right and follow along and
and fall into that um and then obviously
that would lead to Rebellion um of God
and then perceived inequality if I feel
that I'm being treated unequally to
those around me who claim to be
Christians or whatever or that God is
marginalizing me which we know that he
doesn't um that can also lead to uh this
Rebellion against God so unfortunately
there's a lot of things in life that can
kind of compound together to make it
easy at times depending on the way in
which we're orienting our mind um to
rebel against God and we see that action
happening again and again throughout the
Bible so let's take a look at some
verses
um I'll give you a little bit extra time
just because I don't have it up there
but Deuteronomy 31 and we're going to
start in
24 we're going to go through 28 so
Deuteronomy 31 starting in verse
24 says here it came about when Moses
finished writing the words of this law
in a book until they were complete that
Moses commanded the Levites who carried
the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord
saying take this book of the law and
place it beside the Ark of the Covenant
of the Lord your God that it may remain
there as a witness against you for I
know your rebellion and your
stubbornness behold while I am still
alive with you today you have been
rebellious against the Lord how much
more then after my death assemble to me
all the Elders of your tribes and your
offices officers that I may speak these
words in their hearing and call the
heavens and earth to witness against
them right so this is uh this is Moses
we're getting now towards the end of his
life um and kind of
um you know he's he's getting all of his
his his dues like um getting everything
set up so that way whenever the
Israelites enter the promised land
everything hopefully will kind of go
through clean um and so we see now he's
coming he's he's written the book of the
law he's received all these laws he's
received the tablets he's gone up on the
mountain and he's spoken with god um and
he gets all this information and then he
comes down he's writing it all out he's
giving this to the Levites and he even
mentions like all right look I'm alive
still right now right so God God gave a
level of authority to me over the
Israelites and I'm alive right now and
yet you still turn back and rebel
against God all right we see this rather
quickly I mean Moses goes up on the
mountain to go and get the Ten
Commandments and speak with God like
they know he's going up there to be in
the presence of the Lord and yet he
comes down and they're worshiping a
golden calf um pretty quick turnaround
time in that too I
mean there's things that happen that I
think is like how could you Rebel and
change your mind how how can you walk
through on dry ground the Red
Sea and see water on both sides of you
and then be like oh look at what this
cow did for us this is our God but we
see that happen right and so uh here he
says he's like I I know that there's a
rebellious nature within you I know that
there's thatu in you um and so he wants
to bring all the elders and the officers
so that way he can witness um in front
of them to to the heavens into the Earth
um here's another example that we see of
of rebellion let's pop over to 1st
Samuel chapter
15 and I'm going to kind of skip around
I'm going to read 2:3 8 to9 and then
verse 23 but again that's uh 1st Samuel
chapter
15 so starting in verse two thus says
the Lord of hosts I will punish amalec
for what he did to Israel how he set
himself against him on the way while I
was coming from Egypt now go and strike
amalec and utterly destroy all that he
has and do not spare him but put to
death both man and woman child and
infant ox and sheep camel and Donkey all
right so this is a commandment from the
Lord that is given to King
Saul he wants these the AMC well I guess
it would be amalec and the amalekites
wiped out he wants them gone everything
um no no people coming back nothing
coming back destroy everything that that
basically was there um and so then let's
skip down to verses 8 and
N so Saul gets his men he sends people
out to go um and in verse 8 he captured
AAG the king of the amalekites alive and
utterly destroyed all of the people with
the edge of the sword but Saul and the
people spared AAG and the best of the
sheep and The Oxen the fatlings the
Lambs and all that was good and there
was and were not willing to destroy them
utterly but everything despised and
worthless that they utterly destroyed so
now we see that he goes He forms this
Alliance to go out and get the uh get
the
amalekites and then they take the king
and they spare him and then they take
well hey you know they're just some
sheep right they didn't do anything
against us let's take some of the sheep
what about some of the The Oxen what
about some of the the Lambs um and you
know of course probably gold and jewelry
and and that kind of stuff they took and
then if it wasn't really worth it to
them and it didn't cost anything well
hey we'll get rid of that but we see
this is contrary to what God Said So
let's let's go down to verse
23 so verse 23 of 1 Samuel 15 for
Rebellion is as the sin of divination
and insubordination is as iniquity and
idolatry because you have rejected the
word of the Lord he has also rejected
you from being king
um and then Sam S Saul said to Samuel I
have sinned I have indeed transgressed
in the commands of the Lord and the
words because I feared the people and
listen to their voice so um here we have
that we can see that this Rebellion cost
Saul his kingship it cost Saul his
position of authority um among the
people of Israel and here's the
difference of a man between what we can
see in Saul and David and how we should
be right because again I think it's easy
for us to write ourselves into the
heroes of the the story but a lot of
times we we find ourselves truly um in
the opposite is that look at what
happens whenever um whenever Samuel came
to Saul he says and then Saul said to
Samuel I have sinned I have indeed
transgress yes I messed up because I
feared the
people well it they were going to get me
you know they they really wanted to have
any Shifting the blame right but then on
the flip side whenever we see David and
David messed up with
basba and then the prophet comes and he
speaks with him and he says I've sinned
I made a mistake this was on me right it
wasn't Beth Sheba it wasn't anybody else
I made the mistake um and that's that's
part of the difference that we can see
as as far as reacting to that Rebellion
I think that's important for us because
when we are met with that right whether
it be from somebody that we know or
maybe even our own conscience saying hey
what I'm doing is wrong it's important
for us not to go back to Casting blame
like Saul but rather take ownership like
David and say I rebelled I made a
mistake and the reason that it happened
was out of my own desires and not out of
um others that are around me um so
that's the story of Samuel there uh
Proverbs 17 and:
11 Proverbs 1711 says a rebellious man
seeks only evil so a cruel Messenger
will be sent against him but uh let's
focus on the first part there right so a
rebellious man seeks only
evil nothing really good comes out of
just rebelling to Rebel
right unless it's against evil but um as
far as far as just that which is good or
or you know especially whenever we're
talking in the mindset now of against
God there's there's no profit that comes
from that um the book of Isaiah chapter
or uh yeah chapter 1
and verse
two Isaiah listen oh heavens and O and
here o Earth for the Lord speaks this is
the Lord's speaking Sons I have reared
and brought up but they have revolted
against me and Ox knows its owner and
the donkey it's Master's manager but
Israel does not know my people do not
understand right so he's he's reared up
the the children of Israel he's saved
them from captivities um he has been
there with them uh through every step of
the way and yet still they rebel against
him and this is a common pattern that we
see with the Israelites right I mean we
see constantly doing really good and
then things get comfortable and then
they drop and there's rebellion and then
it's like oh no we need God or God's
like hey like I'm going to teach you a
lesson because you're rebelling against
me and then things kind of start back on
the up and up and then same thing you
get comfortable and then it drops um and
I don't think that's far too too far off
from our lives right we we go out and we
we're doing our stuff and we're you know
we maybe it's a Sunday or a ladies
Retreat or a men's Retreat or Bible camp
or something that we get fired back up
for God and we're yes and this is
awesome and then we get comfortable and
we plateau and then you know we just
kind of start you know sin kind of
creeps in here and there because our
minds are all off on different places
and then we're like oh no you know we
hear something at church that gets
brought up or a friend or a video that
pops up on on Facebook and then we get
back on track and then same thing we get
comfortable and we drop off um so it's
it's a difficult um it's a difficult
thing but I mean it's something that we
can see happens over and over again
throughout the Israelites um super
common one I'm sure you all know the
story but Jonah right uh Jonah 1: 1-3
the word of the Lord came to Jonah the
son of the amti saying arise go to
Nineveh the great City and cry against
it for their wickedness has come before
me but Jonah rose up to flee to CH
tarses the pre uh from the presence of
God so he went down to japa found a ship
which was going to t
paid the fair and went down to go with
them to tares for the uh away from the
presence of God right go to
Nineveh I need you to preach I have a
message that they need to hear okay
opposite
direction trying to hide from
God a rebellion against him and then not
only that but then of course whenever he
does go um his mind Rebels against God
and not wanting for them to even be
saved whenever God uh was was honoring
their
repentance um but again this is easy
right now it's we can go to the extreme
of looking and saying well yeah I mean
look at Jonah I mean how crazy you can't
hide from God he knows and sees
everything right I mean you you went in
a boat and went in the opposite
direction and ended up getting into a a
sticky situation in the sea to get
thrown overboard and eaten up by a
fish yet at the same time on a mind
scale we do the same thing don't we hey
go out and teach the word and then we
sit there and we have a perfect
opportunity to mention Christ or
somebody says something that would be a
great chance to say hey well actually or
did you know and we keep silent or we
turn away and and we get up and we and
we walk to the
bathroom at work right and then we come
back and we sit down and now that
moment's passed and we're on to the next
topic of conversation and we're like
okay I avoided I avoided having to to
mention anything or having to stick out
or I avoided having to embarrass myself
if I didn't know the answer to something
it's not too far off from what we see
Jonah doing right um so just because
it's not leaving the country we can do
this still in our lives here um and it's
it's unfortunately sometimes easier than
than what we would think uh as far as
just mentioning and and being present
for what God has asked us to do uh let's
go to the New Testament we're going to
take a look at Romans
uh Romans chapter 13 and we're going to
look at verse 1 and
two Paul a bond servant of Jesus Christ
called as an apostle set apart for the
gospel of God which he promised
beforehand through His prophets and the
Holy Scripture conc that ain't right
that's one let me go to
131 Romans 131 and2 here we go every
person is to be in subjection to
governing authorities for there is no
Authority except from God God of and
those which exist are established by God
therefore whoever resists Authority has
opposed the ordinance of God and they
who have opposed will receive
condemnation upon themselves um this
one's tough right because not always is
Authority in Alliance with the way that
I think not necessarily even just like
on God and and like salvation and those
sorts of things um but I mean I'm sure
that we've seen right we just went
through an election season and pretty
much like every other year it's about
50/50 it's always pretty close to 50/50
one might tip a little bit this way and
then the next year it'll be somebody
else but it's close enough and
regardless of what side of the coin
we're on we are called to respect that
Authority by God right even if I don't
agree even if I don't agree we are
called to honor that person because God
is the one who puts these people into
place God has ultimate authority over
the entire world right and he's he's
bestowed that Authority Upon Jesus
Christ and if you have all the authority
over your creation then anything that
falls into Authority underneath you is
deemed through you right because he has
the authority to make it so or not make
it so and so um we can see here that
Rebellion against right even we can
think back whenever um think about Peter
right they're they're in the Garden of
Gethsemane Christ is praying sweating
drops of blood probably near the point
of death from panic and stress and here
comes Judas who is a so-called friend
for these past few years with the all
the guards and the people to basically
weed out Jesus and what happens Peter
gets up with a sword and he's ready to
rebel against them against the
government and and kill this man and
Jesus says no no that's not what we're
here to do right that's not our purpose
um likewise right we we need to be
mindful of that and this is um you know
this is all kinds of of authorities um
this one in specific says the governing
authorities but um again I just think
that's important for us to to remember
um because ultimately whenever we do
that right whenever we respect and
whenever we um obey or or don't Rebel
and and have this reverence towards the
authority we're ultimately proclaiming
God is in control even though you might
have some sense of authority God is in
control because he allowed you to even
have this authority to be here and do
this so um it all goes back to the glory
of God which is ultimately um what's
important um second Peter chapter
2 it's 4 through1 15 for the sake of
time I'm just kind of going to
paraphrase um I'll read a couple here
and there um but basically it's it's
speaking of um right God sparing the
Angels um whenever they uh or God did
not spare the Angels when they sin he
cast them out uh into hell committed
them to the pits of Darkness um he
didn't spare the ancient world uh yet he
preserved Noah uh who was a preacher of
righteousness um and then brought the
the flood to the world of the ungodly uh
he condemned Sodom and gomorah to the
destruction uh which is making them an
example uh to those who would live
ungodly lies um he rescued the righteous
lot who is oppressed um by the sensual
conduct of unprincipled men um so the
Lord knows how starting in verse 9 the
Lord knows how to rescue The Godly from
the Temptation and to keep the
unrighteousness or the unrighteous from
punishment for the day of judgment and
especially those who indulge in the
flesh in its corrupt desires and despise
Authority daring self-will they do not
tremble when they revile Angelic
majesties whereas Angels who are greater
in might and power do not bring a
reviling judgment against them before
the Lord but these like unreasoning
animals born as creatures of instinct to
be captured and killed reviling where
they have no knowledge and wh the D the
destruction of those creatures who also
be destroyed suffering wrong is the
wages of doing wrong they count it as a
pleasure to reveal in the daytime they
are stains and blemishes revealing in
their deceptions as they Coral you
having eyes full of adultery that never
cease from sin enticing unstable Souls
having a heart train trained in greed a
cursed children forsaking the way for
which they have gone astray having
followed the way of balum and the sons
of beor who loved the wages of the
unrighteousness right so again we just
see this Rebellion that comes um from
from certain people in humanity and then
it leads down these roads of God
punishing that um and punishing there's
a punishment that comes for
unrighteousness and Rebellion against
his word um and then there's a saving
that comes for those who obey and the
righteous so with that leading into
obedience um there's a an experiment
that was performed by a gentleman
Milgram um milgram's experiment you
might have heard about it but it is one
where basically it was a shock
experiment so he he brought in there was
a person who was like the authority
figure um who was overseeing the
experiment and then you had a teacher
who came in and then you had the subject
so there's a wall and then and on this
side is the subject on this side of the
wall is the teacher and the person who's
basically like the mediator between the
two and he would tell the teacher okay
hey give this question or whatever and
they would give a question and if the
person got the question wrong then they
were told to shock them um so they would
turn this dial whatever to shock and
each time that they got a question wrong
the shock would get stronger now the
shocks were fake um but the teacher
didn't know that they they were fake and
uh whenever they did it they found that
over
70% of the teachers that were there
administered what they thought to be a
fatal shock to the person who answered
the question wrong at the authority of
the person who was the mediator um
showing that a couple things one um
people who are uh people are more
obedient to Authority that they view as
legitimate so these people viewed these
people to be okay these are legitimate
they're they're really the ones
mediating this and so that leads them to
follow right um we're more likely to
obey a police officer who is pulling us
over cuz they they have the uniform
they're legitimate they have the badge
they have the gun they they have
everything for me to say hey this is a
person of authority in comparison to
just joeo out at Walmart telling me to
do something right because okay well
where's your power where's your
Authority um so we can see that another
thing that it showed was proximity to
Authority the closer that one is to the
one who's in Authority the more likely
that they are to obey same thing in this
position the ones who were closest right
so if the mediator was in the room with
them telling them okay next shock they
were more likely to follow it than if
they were outside of the room talking to
them like over a walkie-talkie or
something so proximity also leads to uh
more likely to obey and then uh
socialization so we learn from a
childhood uh to obey authority figures
so as we grow older right we're you know
hey you need to obey your Mom and Dad
you need to obey your your aunt and
uncle or or your grandparents or the
babysitter and all this stuff and then
as we get older we keep those
formulations and then that becomes any
power of authority we we tend to learn
hey they are are to be obeyed they are
to be listened to again flipping it back
to the beginning and looking through um
as far as through a god lens um we're
more obedient to Authority that we view
as legitimate we have to believe right
we have to believe that God is real we
have to believe that God is good if we
do these things and say right God is a
good god and he's here for me I'm more
likely to obey him than if he's just
kind of a passing or fleeting thought uh
throughout the day two proximity to
Authority we got to be close to him we
got to be in our words we got to be
reading our bibles if we're not doing
these things and our proximity is
further and further away as the week
goes on from Sunday the less likely we
are to obey him on a daily basis we have
to have that relationship we have to be
close with him if we do that it'll be
easier more likely to obey one we'll
know what he's asking of us better and
two we'll want to because we'll see in
his word uh what he's doing for us and
then three socialization this is
something we need to teach our you know
kids and teach the young about the
reverence of God right we need to learn
this and through learning it and
instilling it at a young age um we're
able to then grow in it instead of
trying to find it uh later on in life as
we get older so let's take a look at
some verses here um so that way we don't
go too far over I know we started late
today but
um back to Deuteronomy we're going to
take a look at Deuteronomy 11 and verse
1 Deuteronomy 11 and verse1 it says you
shall therefore love the Lord your God
and always keep his charge his statutes
his ordinances and his Commandments
right pretty simply said obey him obey
what he says obey What He commands obey
his statutes um that is what we are
called to do going back to uh 1st Samuel
right let's finish that story so 1st
Samuel chapter 15 and this time we're
going to look at verse 22 U what does 22
say so Samuel Kims back he's talking to
Saul this is right before he goes on
about rebellion but he says um has the
Lord as much delight in burnt offerings
and sacrifices as in obeying the voice
of the Lord behold to obey is better
than sacrifice and to heed better than
the fat of rams right so we know that
again Samuel went he took Lambs he took
oxen uh he took the fatlings of the
sheep in doing so these things could be
used as sacrifice right hey that's good
we're we're sacrificing to God that's
what he wants that what he ask but what
does uh Samuel come and say does he
Delight in the burnt offerings and
sacrifices as in obeying right is
obedience to God not more important than
the sacrifices that you're going to make
off of animals that he told you to
slaughter
previously behold to a obey is better
than sacrifice and to heed than the fat
of the Rams right that's important for
us to remember we can't substitute our
sacrifices in our life for our obedience
our obedience is more important than
that which we sacrifice in our life
right because through our obedience
comes sacrifice um let's pop over to
John the gospel and we're going to look
at verse 14 or chapter 14 excuse me in
verse 15 everybody know it if you love
me you will keep my
Commandments right part of loving Jesus
is obeying his word listening to what he
has to say and and following that uh
acts
5: 27 to
29 acts 5 starting in verse
27 when they had brought them they stood
uh they stood them before the council
the high priest questioned them saying
we gave you strict orders not to
continue teaching in this name and yet
you have filled Jerusalem with your
teachings and intend to bring this man's
blood upon us but Peter and the apostles
answered we must obey God rather than
men right we told you stop talking about
this Jesus guy he's dead he's
gone knock it off or else we're going to
put you in jail right we'll kill you
they keep going keep going and then the
council comes before him right so this
one I guess is a little bit of that act
of rebellion against an authority group
but again that's where there's teetering
the line of like rebelling for the sake
of God and what's good versus rebelling
against just any Authority um but what
do they say no we must obey God rather
than men right that's that's where our
alliance Falls is with God and and in
his ordinances and his word um same
thing today right that's that's what
we're here to do if if um if it became
illegal tomorrow to to worship God and
to pray you know I hope that we would
all still come together and worship and
pray because that's that's where we are
we are to obey God um and not men and
that's the difference of that Rebellion
um for good versus Rebellion just for
the sake of rebellion um
Ephesians chapter 6 and verses 1
through3 another pretty popular one that
I'm sure you've heard children obey your
parents in the Lord for this is right
honor your father and your mother which
is the first commandment with a promise
so that you may be well so that it may
be well with you and that you may live
long on Earth obey your parents right
we're called to Obedience of our parents
um when we're young and likewise um as
children of God we're called to
obedience to him as well um Hebrews 13
and verse1
17 obey your leaders and submit to them
for they will keep watch over your souls
as those who will give an account let
them do this with joy and not with grief
for this would be unprofitable for you
right so your leaders and commit to them
for they will watch over your souls as
those who will give an account this is
talking about our elders we need to obey
our elders right I think that's another
important thing that we can sometimes
you know even if we disagree there's a
lot that goes on behind the scenes here
and a lot of things that we are not
privy to because well we're not supposed
to be um so we sit back and something
changes or something goes not exactly
the way that we wanted or thought it
would and we like to cast blame or point
fingers or well if I was in position I
would do it this way right that's not
our call that's not our job that's not
what we're here to do our job as the
members of this church are to heed to
God first and then to respect the
authorities that he put into place being
our elders and do that through obedience
to them that's what we're called to do
as as members of this church um and and
they're watching over us right they got
a big task ahead of them in in watching
over our souls right now we watch over
each other souls and our souls as well
but that's that's something that's been
put on them and and they need they need
the respect and obedience so that way we
can make that easier um on them as well
um I'm going to skip the second John the
Titus kind of says the same thing but I
just want to spend uh just a minute or
two on these last two because these ones
are good and important and this one
Falls a little bit in line of what we
mentioned this morning Romans 5:18 and
19 uh we did read it this morning so
I'll just read it again here so so then
as through one transgression there
resulted condemnation to all men even so
through one act of righteousness there
resulted justification of life to all
men here we go 19 for as through the one
man's
Disobedience there uh the many were made
Sinners even so Through The Obedience of
the one the many will be made righteous
the importance of Christ's obedience is
Monumental he had to be obedient
completely faultlessly obedient in order
for our Salvation to ever take place um
through the Disobedience and the the sin
that that came into the world through
Adam right and gets passed through
through Adam for now until the good Lord
returns was negated by The Obedience of
Christ
um it's and and what's interesting is it
whenever we think back to it um actually
let me go here to this next verse and
let's read this one and then I'll I'll
mention
so we have uh Philippians
25-8 have this attitude in yourselves
which was also in Christ Jesus who
although he existed in the form of God
did not regard equality with God a thing
to be grasped but emptied himself taking
the form of a bonder servant and being
made in the likeness of men being found
in appearance as a man he humbled
himself by becoming obedient to the
point of death even death on a cross for
this reason also God highly exalted him
and bestowed put a name on him the name
which is above every name right so he
humbled himself to the point of becoming
a human right because previously he was
with God he he is god um was with God
and was the word of God and through that
had some level of a closer equality than
he had here on Earth and yet he came
down here and almost had to learn
obedience right if you are the ultimate
Authority you're not not the one really
being obedient you're the one kind of
saying what to be obedient for so um in
Christ becoming a human right this is
the only time that God had taken the
form of a human and lived among humanity
and went through
Temptation right God can't be
tempted and he went through it because
he took away that equality and became
obedient to learn obedience and do it
perfectly and through that obedience he
then was obedient to the point of death
right let this cup not pass from me or
you know let this cup pass from me but
your will not my will I'm obedient to
your will father and through that we now
can be saved right we now have the
opportunity of forever with him because
he was obedient so application we're
called to Obedience of the authority of
God right ultimately he is the ultim UL
imate authority of Our Lives he deserves
all of our obedience um and he doesn't
deserve any of our Rebellion we are
blessed through our obedience right God
will send us blessings through our
obedience and listening to him likewise
in our Rebellion um there are curses and
and there there are um pain and
affliction that comes through that uh
Rebellion leads to division and anger
right whether that be Church divisions
friendship divisions family divisions
Rebellion leads to division and it leads
to anger and and just um pain and and
and hardness uh and then finally the
biggest one right Jesus is the perfect
example of obedience um and he is the
one that we should try to emulate in our
lives he's who we want to be like we
need to read about him we need to see uh
how he he played out the obedience
throughout his life and we need to try
and do that in everything that we do uh
to be obedient back to him and to the
father so let's say a quick prayer and
then we'll be uh dismissed
too Lord God we thank you so much for
everything that you do Lord we know that
there are times s that we Rebel that we
do what we want and not what you have
commanded Lord um but God we just pray
and ask for your forgiveness of those
things um Lord we pray that we might be
obedient to you uh that we might uh
study your word and and see what it is
exactly that you're asking of us um and
that we might follow it and that we
might uh just do our best to emulate
Christ in our life God that we might be
a light for you out in the world um and
that through our obedience the glory and
the honor comes back to you uh and that
others might might be pointed in your
direction God just bless us over the
rest of this week um we thank you for
everything that you've done for us Lord
we thank you for this uh place to
worship and and this time set apart to
come together uh Lord forgive us of all
of our sins we pray this in Jesus name
amen have a wonderful Sunday
