now I've said this every week and I
meant I mean to do this so you some
people study the Bible kind of like
butterflies some people kind of study
the Bible kind of like bees if you study
the Bible kind of like a butterfly it's
beautiful you flit around look beautiful
and you get the sweetness out for
yourself and that's the end of it and uh
you go on your way and then the
butterfly becomes a worm again it all
starts over again or you can do it like
bees bees they they work together and uh
they gather to sweetness it's not quite
as pretty as butterflies uh they make
honey which is kind of a sticky mess in
a way but it's a work in progress It's
not really pretty but it blesses and it
blesses again so that's what I'm
challenging you to think about yourself
more like a bee than just getting the
sweetness just for yourself the point of
receiving the sweetness is to share it
with others make a better world uh the
ab of C's of Faith Like I said have
covered the authority of Jesus the
Believers of Jesus now we want to look
at the cross of Jesus and again as a
reminder the three books are the same
books that we give to the kids at FCA
that will get them a scholarship if
they're able to comply and and get that
filled out it's also a book in the
easyto read version not the greatest
version in the Bible uh I mean in the
bible greatest version of the Bible but
rather it is a version that uh parallels
what's used with friend speak which
we're reaching out to people of other
language uh and trying to cross that
barrier so we're looking at today uh
this microwave study of the Cross of
Christ uh we want to look at the first
section here's the first section as you
oh I've already covered that first
section the paradise we lost by the
cross of sin and death here's the first
verse that we're looking at Genesis 1:
26- 27 then God s now L let make let's
make humans who will be like us they
will rule over all the fish in the sea
and the birds the air they will rule
over all the large animals and all the
little things that crawl on the earth so
God created humans that you me in his
own image he created them to be like
himself he created them male and female
that's all the work of God so humans
male and female were created by God were
made in God's Own image thank you class
Genesis 2: 8 and 9 then the Lord God
planted a garden
in the east in a place named Eden he put
the man he made in that Garden then the
Lord caused all the beautiful trees that
were good for food to grow in the garden
in the middle of the garden he put the
tree of life and the tree that gives
knowledge about Good and Evil so the
answer to this is humans made in God's
image were placed in a Paradise Garden
named Eden that's correct Genesis
chapter 2 keep filling in the blanks if
you can keep up I'm trying to go fast in
Genesis 2: 15-1 17 says the Lord God put
the man in the Garden of Eden to work
the soil and take care of the garden the
Lord God gave him this command you may
eat from any tree in the garden but you
must not eat from the tree that gives
knowledge about Good and Evil if you eat
fruit from that tree on the day on that
day you will certainly die so humans
were G given laws in the garden that if
broken would result in death that's
correct Genesis 3 veres 1-7 says this
the snake was the most clever of all the
wild animals that the Lord had made the
snake spoke to the woman and said woman
did God really tell you that you must
not eat from any tree in the garden the
woman answered the snake no we can eat
fruit from the trees in the garden
Garden but there is one tree we must not
eat from God told us you must not eat
fruit from the tree that is in the
middle of the garden you must not even
touch that tree or you will die but the
snake said to the woman you will not die
God knows that if you eat the fruit from
that tree you will learn about Good and
Evil and then you will be like God the
woman could see that the tree was
beautiful and the fruit looked good to
eat eat she also liked the idea that it
would make her wise so she took some of
the fruit from the tree and ate it her
husband was there with her so she gave
him some of the fruit and he ate it then
it was as if their eyes were opened and
they saw things differently they saw
that they were naked so they got some
fig leaves sewed them together and wore
them for clothes so humans dece were
deceived into eating the forbidden fruit
and had had their eyes open that's
correct Genesis 3:
16-19 then God said to the woman I will
cause you to have much trouble when you
are pregnant and when you give birth to
Children you will have much pain all you
ladies know about this you will want
your husband very much but he will rule
over you another problem verse 17 then
God said to the man I commanded you not
to eat from that tree but you listened
to your wife and ate from it so I will
curse the ground because of you the
world we live on has been cursed you
will have to work hard all of your life
for the fuit food the ground produces
the ground will grow thorns and weeds
for you and you will have to eat the
plants that grow wild in the field you
will work hard for your food until your
face is covered with sweat you will work
hard until the day you die and then you
will become dust again I use dust to
make you and when you die you will
become dust again so because of their
sin they would have pain hard troubles
and death that's correct Genesis chter 3
this is the curse we live under verse 24
God forced the man to live leave the
garden then he put cherub angels and a
sword of fire at the entrance of the
garden to protected the sword flashed
around and around guarding the way to
the tree of life I always think of a one
of those Sabers from Star Wars anyway he
says because of their sin humans have to
separate from God and leave the garden
that's correct Isaiah 59: 1 and 2 which
means they couldn't be with God anymore
in Isaiah 59:1 it says look the Lord's
power is enough to save you he can hear
you when you ask him for help it is your
sins that separate you from your God he
turns away from you when he sees them it
is our sins that end up separating us
all from our God correct so what is sin
that brings us to this question in this
subject we're looking at the paradise we
lost by the curse of sin and death so
what is sin 1 John 3 and verse one
explains it says anyone who sins breaks
God's law yes sinning is the same as
living against God's law so we sin when
we live against or break God's law
exactly Romans chapter 14 explains
further Romans 14:22 through 23 says you
should keep your beliefs about these
things a secret between yourself and God
it is a blessing to be able to do what
you think is right without feeling
guilty but anyone who eats something
without being sure it is right is doing
wrong that is because he they did not
believe it was right and if you do
anything that you believe is not right
it is a it is sin so we sin when we do
anything we do not think or or we
believe is
not right so it's we've seen two
different ways you can sin let's look at
another way you can sin John 4:1 17 if
you fail to do what you know is right
you are sinning so we sin when we fail
to do what we know is right so that's
three ways you can see breaking a law
you can do what you just wound your own
conscience or leaving something undone
that you know is right James chapter 1:
14- 15 explains how we sin you are
tempted by the evil things you want your
own desires lead you away and traps you
your desire grows inside of you until it
results and sin then the sin grows
bigger and bigger and finally ends in
death so we desire something evil and
that desire grows resulting in sin
that's exactly right so that's what sin
is and then another question is is death
the primary consequence of humanity sin
Romans chap 3: 23 says all have sinned
and are not good enough to share God's
Divine greatness so every human has
always committed
sin so we we've all got this problem
it's not just folks that live in the
world Romans 5: 12-4 says sin came into
the world because of what one man did
this is read a moment ago and with sin
Came Death so this is why all people
must die because all people have sinned
that's why there's death in the world
folks and even little babies can die
verse 13 sin was in the world before the
law of Moses but God does not consider
people guilty of sin if there is no law
but from the time of Adam to the time of
Moses everyone had to die Adam died
because he sinned by not obeying God's
command but even those who did not sin
that same way had to die because they
were still under the curse that one man
Adam can be compared to Christ the one
who was coming in the future so all
people have sinned and that is why all
people must die that's correct Romans 6
23 when people sin they earn what sin
pays death but God gives his people a
free gift eternal life in Christ Jesus
our lord so all people sin and when
people sin they earn what sin pays death
right and that's not accounting
necessarily for just what we've
inherited from Adam but we all do it
Revelation 20: 12-15 says and I saw
those who had died great Great and Small
standing Before the Throne some books
were opened and another book was opened
the Book of Life the people were judged
by what they had done which is written
in the books the sea gave up the Dead
who were in it death and Hades that's
the Unseen World gave up the Dead who
were in them all these people were
judged by what they had done and death
and Hades were thrown into the Lake of
Fire this Lake of Fire is is the second
death and anyone whose name was not
found written written in the Book of
Life was thrown into the Lake of Fire so
people judged guilty and Unforgiven are
cast into fire the
second death that's right so now the
second part of this study that's the
first part the paradise that was lost
and the curse of sin and death that fell
upon all of mankind now we want to look
at the plan to save us by Christ cross
so God was not happy with that that he
wanted to save us by the sacrifice and
death of Christ so it was God who
desired to save us through Christ's
cross mankind did not initiate this God
initiated this plan to us second Peter 3
and verse 9 says the Lord is not being
slow in doing what he promised the way
some people understand slowness but God
is being patient with you he doesn't
want anyone to be lost he wants everyone
to change their ways and stop sinning so
God is patient with us because he does
not want anyone to be lost Amen to that
1 Timothy 2 and verse4 God wants
everyone to be saved and to fully
understand the truth so God wants
everyone to be saved that's you and me
my friend John 3: 16 and 17 yes God
loved the world so much that he gave his
only son so that everyone who believes
in Him should not be lost but have
eternal life God sent his son into the
world he did not send him to judge the
world guilty but to save the world
through him the world was already guilty
God so loved the world He sent Jesus to
save the world through him that is Jesus
in 1 John 2 and ver 2 Jesus is the way
our sins are taken taken away and he is
the way all people can have their sins
taken away too so God sent Jesus to be
the way all people's sins are taken away
absolutely Genesis chapter 3 again back
to that story just a little bit here
verse 15 I will make you and the woman
enemies to each other your children
talking to Satan the the serpent your
children so that means Satan has
children just like God your children and
her children will be enemies you will
bite her child's foot but he will crush
your head so from the time of Eve it was
known her child her child would crush
Satan's head exactly Genesis
22:8 Abraham answered God himself is
providing the lamb for the Sacrifice by
the way that's a reason Mary not Joseph
is the one that brought Jesus in the
world and Abraham answered God himself
is providing the lamb for the sacrifice
my son so both Abraham and his son went
together to that place again telling you
the future it says from the time of
Abraham it was known God was providing
the lamb for the sacrifice absolutely
this was imagery so that we would
finally get it when it happened how God
saved us in Christ was and is a mystery
to most much of the world does not get
this no notice what the scripture says
about that even though it's in the Bible
they don't get it they haven't studied
it 1 Corinthians chap 2:7 but we speak
God's secret wisdom that has been hidden
from everyone until now God planned this
wisdom for our Glory he planned it
before the world began so even before
man sined none of the rulers of this
world understood this wisdom if they had
understood it they would not have killed
our great and glorious Lord on a cross
so no one
fully understood God's plan to save the
world by the cross that's exactly what
God's plan was Romans 5 puts it this way
verses 6 through 8 Christ died for us
when we were unable to help ourselves we
were living against God but at just the
right time Christ died for us very few
people will die to save the life of
someone else even if it is for a good
person someone might be willing to die
for an especi good person but Christ
died for us while we were still Sinners
and by this God showed how much he loves
us so here's the answer we know God's
love because while we were sinners
Christ died for us exactly so this
brings in another question though into
what God's doing here how did Christ die
for us that's an important question I
mean we're talking about how Christ died
for us how did he die for how could that
be Deuteronomy 24:16 draws that into
question when it says fathers shall not
be put to death for their children nor
shall the children be put to death for
their fathers A person shall be put to
death for his own sin so under the law
of Moses no one was to be put to death
for other sins and yet we've just been
told that's what Jesus did Isaiah 53:
5-6 says but he was being punished for
what we did he was crushed because of
our guilt he took the punishment we
deserved and this brought us peace we
were healed because of his pain we had
all wandered away like sheep we had gone
our own way and yet the Lord put all our
guilt on him so yet Isaiah at this point
this one he spoke of would be punished
for our guilt or our sin sorry I didn't
cat you I was skipped one there you got
it catch up now sorry about that Isaiah
53:8 he was taken away by force and
judged unfairly the people of his time
did not even notice that he was killed
he was put to death for the sins of his
people again back to that concept and he
would be judged unfairly and put to
death for the sins of his people finally
caught you up there sorry about that
Galatians CH 3:13 the law says and by
the way there's a mistake in the uh in
the outline of the book here uh and
we're going to have to correct it on the
next printing the law says we are under
a curse for not always obeying it but
Christ took away that curse he changed
places with us and put himself under
that curse the scripture says anyone who
is hung on a tree and this is what's Mi
missing is under a curse but it's still
in the original so Paul explains Jesus
changed places with us and put himself
under the curse under the curse he did
that by being human but he did that more
by how he died which is what we're about
to look at how God could put him under
the curse though he never sin and though
he is born through a woman in
Deuteronomy 21: 22 and 23 it says a man
might be guilty of a sin that must be
punished by death so you can do
something so bad that you are worthy of
death under the law people might kill
him and hang his body on a tree verse 23
you must not let that body stay on the
tree overnight you must be sure to bury
this man on the same day because the one
who hangs on a tree to die is cursed by
God that's how Jesus died and you must
not let the land that the Lord your God
has given you become unclean so Jesus
was killed on a tree or the cross and
became the one cursed by God and since
God's word cannot be wrong in any place
Jesus had to be declared cursed by God
because that's how he died so not only
became a man who was under the curse but
he then died by a curse and then 2
Corinthians chapter 5 in verse 21 puts
it this way so Christ had no sin but God
made him become sin or cursed so that in
Christ we could be right with God so
through though Christ had no sin by
death on a tree God made him become sin
that's exactly right 1 Peter 3: 18 then
makes this conclusion Christ himself
suffered when he died for you and with
that one one death he paid for your sins
he took all that on himself he was not
guilty but he died for people who are
guilty he did this to bring all of you
to God in his physical form he was
killed but he was made Alive by the
spirit so the point of this is the one
not guilty that is Jesus was made guilty
that the guilty that is you and me might
not be guilty exactly that's the
equation Romans
9:15 God said to Moses I will show Mercy
to anyone I want to show Mercy to I will
show pity to anyone I choose that means
I'll save anybody I want to but he had
to have a mechanism and what we're
looking at is how he had that mechanism
but let's fill in the blank God by the
cross made it legally and morally
possible to show anyone
sorry Mercy that's right sorry about
that Romans 11:32 there's a lot to keep
together I bet y'all trying to fill in
the blanks you're even crazier than I am
right now all people have refused to
obey God and he has put them all
together as people who don't obey him so
that he can show Mercy to everyone so
God's plan in Christ has made it so that
God can show Mercy
to
everyone oh it' be good if I kept up
with you wouldn't
it all right so you're beginning to
catch the glimpse of what God's done now
what should we do in response to that
what's our preconditions for salvation
that's where we're going now going to
try to move through this rather quickly
the preconditions now that's what God
did through Christ Christ was cursed for
us that we might become the
righteousness of God in him so now we're
looking at the preconditions of our
Salvation what does god require of us to
receive this gift because he can have
mercy mer on whomever he will he can
have Grace upon anybody he wishes
however he wants to do it so what must
be done uh and what must we do to make
ourselves right with him is there
anything so if you believe and here's
some questions you need to answer maybe
on your paper or in your head if you
believe you were saved already or have
been saved at some point in the past how
did that happen for you now I'll talk
about what I did are you saved re yes I
am how how were you saved if you're
saved I heard the gospel I believe the
gospel I repented of my sins I made
Christ Lord of my life and I confess
that lordship over my life and I was
baptized uh in water and received the
spirit of God at what point in your
conversion were you saved in the water
in the spirit as I Rose I was saved have
you been baptized yes that's what I was
just talking about if baptized were you
sprinkled poter imers I was immersed
that's the idea of being buried in a
watery grave it's also the par parallel
to being born of a woman filled with
water and then coming out and receiving
the air the breath the spirit if
baptized were you say before or after
baptism obviously after baptism would be
any point in doing the other so what are
the conditions or the
preconditions of salvation for us now
what are the preconditions are the
conditions for salvation now let's look
at a few scripture we going to look at
this first section is about belief in
Jesus John 3: 16 yes God loved the world
so much that he gave his only son so
that everyone who believes in him would
not be lost but have eternal life so the
condition to be saved here is we must
believe now let's look at that on the
other side of the coin so we must
believe look at John how it says in John
8:24 I told you that you would die in
your sin if yes if you do not believe
that I'm he you will die in your sin so
if we do not believe in Jesus we will
die in our sins so we must believe we
don't believe we'll die in our sins
that's an important obviously belief is
a condition acts 17:30 but now we're
going to look about this thing called
repentance or a change of heart it says
in the past people did not understand
God and he overlooked this but now he's
telling everyone in the World to Change
and turn to him so the condition to be
saved here is we must change exactly so
the other word for that is repent Luke
13:3 puts it this way now they were not
but but if you do not decide now to
change your lives you will all be
destroyed like these people it's
discussing some people who had been
killed if we do not decide to change our
lives we will be destroyed so we need to
change our hearts our lives uh and
that's called repentance if we don't
change our hearts Our Lives if we do not
repent we will be destroyed so you must
believe you must repent and Romans
chapter 10 and verse 10 says this yes we
believe in Jesus deep in our hearts and
so we are made right with God and we
openly say that we believe in him and so
we are saved so the condition to be
saved here is we must say we
believe you must say it in Matthew 10:
32 and 33 says if you stand before
others and are willing to say you say
you believe in me then I will tell my
Father in Heaven that you belong to me
but if you stand before others and say
you do not believe in me that is Jesus
then I will tell my Father in Heaven
that you do not belong to me so if we
say we do not believe in Jesus then we
do not belong to
Jesus absolutely so you must say it to
be saved if you don't say it you say you
don't then you're not saved so
confessing or saying you believe in
Jesus is essential that's the reason we
have people come forward and say that
before we even baptize them 1 Peter 3
verse 21 and that water is like baptism
which now saves you baptism is not the
washing of dirt from the body it is
asking God for a clean conscience it
saves you because Jesus Christ was
raised from the dead so the condition to
be saved here is we must be baptized to
be saved John chter 3 and: 5 puts it
this way Jesus answered believe me when
I say that everyone must be born from
water and the spirit anyone who is not
born from water and the spirit cannot
enter God's Kingdom so if we are not one
born from water and the spirit we cannot
enter God's kingdom that's right so we
must baptism saves we are to do it to be
saved and if we don't do that we can't
enter the kingdom that's kind of makes
it more serious doesn't it so now the
question is Mark 16:16 whoever believes
in baptized will be saved but those who
do not believe will be judged guilty
Jesus said
whoever believes and is baptized will be
saved here's what he didn't say whoever
is baptized will be saved and later
they'll believe it doesn't say that and
it doesn't say whoever believes is saved
and labors baptized it says whoever
believes and is baptized will be saved
that's an important order to remember in
Acts chapter 2 and verse 38 it says
Peter said unto them change your hearts
that's back to that repentance thing
remember change your hearts and lives
and be baptized each one of you in the
name of Jesus Christ then God will
forgive your sins and you will receive
the gift of the Holy Spirit Peter told
them to
change and be baptized then God
will forgive your sins absolutely so we
want to talk a little about what also
happens when you're baptized in
Ephesians chapter 1:3 it says this
praise be to the God and father of our
Lord Jesus Christ in Christ God has
given us every spiritual blessing in
heaven now it says here in what in
Christ God has given us every spiritual
blessing in heaven so you must be in
Christ listen to what Timothy says in 2
Timothy 2 and: 10 so I patiently accept
all these troubles I do this to help the
people God has chosen so that they can
have the Salvation that is in Christ
Jesus with this salvation comes Glory
that never ends so God has chosen so
that they can have the Salvation that is
in Christ Jesus absolutely now we know
where salvation is now we know where all
the spiritual blessings are listen to
Galatians 3: 26 you were all baptized
into Christ and so you were all clothed
with Christ this shows that you are all
children of God through faith in Christ
Jesus so this makes it clear that we are
all baptized into Christ that's critical
point now we want to look at another
little critical point about the whole
subject of baptism that there's only one
proper baptism ISM in Ephesians chapter
4 and verse 5 it says this in the list
of all those seven ones one God one hope
it says in verse 5 there is one Lord one
faith and one baptism this makes it
clear that there is only one acceptable
form of baptism that's clear in Acts 8:
36-38 it says while they were traveling
down the road this is when Philip found
the unic of Ethiopia while they were
traveling in down the road they came to
some water the official said look here
is water what is stopping me from being
baptized then the official ordered the
Chariot to stop both Phillip and the
official went down into the water and
Philip baptized him that is Philip
baptized the official the unic from
Ethiopia acceptable baptism requires
going down into the water exactly and
then 1 Peter 3:21 again which we read
earlier says and that water is like
baptism which now saves you and then
says baptism is not the washing of dirt
from the body it is asking God for a
clean conscience it saves you because
Jesus Christ was raised from the dead
it's not because it's some great work
that you've earned salvation it's rather
a clear conscience and by the power of
the Resurrection so acceptable baptism
requires seeking God for a
clean conscience which is sins are
forgiven and you know in Romans chapter
6 last passage verses 3 to 5 says did
you forget that all of us became part of
Christ Jesus when we were baptized we we
became part of him in our baptism we
share in his death so when we were
baptized we were buried with him and
took part in his death and just as
Christ was raised from the death by the
wonderful power of the father so we can
now live as a new life Christ died and
we have been joined with him by dying
too so we will also be joined with him
by rising from Death as he did so
acceptable baptism is a death burial and
a rising from the dead that's exactly
right so here's what we've looked at
really quick I know it's pushing through
really fast and I'm sorry about that but
the paradise we lost resulted in the
curse of death that you are facing
because every one of you going to die
just like I am you're under that curse
even if you had done much wrong that's
it what is sin breaking the law of God
and there are other ways you can do that
too H and death is the prise primary
consequence in that discussion the plan
to save us is by the Cross of Christ he
desired to save us by that cross it's a
mystery to a lot of people but
ultimately you saw how his death on the
cross he took our place even though that
was unusual for that to happen the
preconditions for our Salvation in
Christ is we saw how we must believe if
we do not believe in Jesus we'll die in
our sins we saw we must change or repent
if we do not change we will be destroyed
we saw how we must uh not only believe
and change but we must uh confess or say
that we believe in Jesus and if we do
not say we believe in Jesus we won't be
saved how we must be baptized and we are
told and if we're not born of water in
the spirit we can't enter the kingdom
whoever believes in the baptized will be
saved if we change and we're baptized
then God will forgive us we saw and all
those who were baptized were baptized
into Christ where all the blessings are
salvation which is in Christ and the one
acceptable form of baptism requires a
going down in the water and coming up
out of the water and seeking God for a
clean conscience thus acceptable baptism
involves a death a burial and a rising
from the dead so we have one last
question and then I'm going to be
through and it's it's actually a big
question but it's a lot I mean this we
we need to see this last little
question um where where do you get the
benefits of death of Jesus in baptism
are you willing to do as he commanded
there it is I don't have anything else
to add to that except to say oh I'm
tired and if you're ready we'll help you
every way we can God bless you it's been
a interesting study and if you want to
go further if you'd like to get a copy
of this book and go further and dig
deeper or if you'd like to go and ask a
lot of questions that classroom in the
corner will do just that for you not
everybody's designed to study by
themselves most of us need somebody to
help them so we encourage you to go to
the prospective members class if you can
but if you're not right with the Lord
and you need help right now come forward
while we stand and while we sing
