I've not got a whole lot to
say this is I want to talk about um
profane
improvements I think we are doing the
very best we can to improve our efforts
in evangelism there are many things that
we need to try to improve but there are
certain areas of the Christian walk that
are not to be touched they're not to be
improved they're not to be made better
they're not to be focused on as if if we
don't get it better and we haven't done
the right thing and that relates to
things coming to worship and a lot of
people feel like they have to fix
worship I do not agree with that at all
and I believe that's against the
teachings of almost all of the
scriptures particularly from this verse
we just read when we keep our worship
simple basic
uncut we eliminate the
unnecessary so that the necessary may
speak and we
may be good
listeners that means keep it as simple
as we possibly can when it comes to
worship let me read it again and if you
make me an altar of stone this is in the
law basic teaching of how God feels
about worship if you make me an altar
where you would worship of stone you
shall not build it of Hune Stones I want
the Rough Cut Rock and as it was in the
ground for if you use your tool on it
you have profaned it you've tried to
improve something that I don't want
improved so to try to improve the alar
of God will only profane it to try to
improve the worship of God will only
profane it to try to prove improve the
message of God
will only profane it the teachings of
Jesus Christ are exactly the way God
meant them to be delivered to us at this
point we
cannot improve upon the message and to
try to improve say the marriage of God
will only end up profaning marriage it's
a simple concept we need to do it just
like the Bible spells out whatever we're
talking about so to try to improve the
performance of God so like when we want
to come together and we want to turn it
into a performance tonight is not a
performance except that we perform if
you will for God it isn't so that all of
you will enjoy the singing the singing
is not just so you'll enjoy it it is to
bless you but it's not just to make you
happy because it sounds wonderful it is
about not profaning the performance of
God when we use inner entertainment we
start slipping entertainment to attract
people into church we are profaning it
we are adding a chisel to the stone when
we turn it into secular m music so in
other words if it's not the cool the
latest secular kind of songs in fact not
even really religious music but worship
music that was once just secular music
and we kind of jazz it up we are really
encroaching with the flesh we are taking
what is a very basic concept that stone
that's been uncut and we are now trying
to improve it so that everybody will go
wow wasn't that great so to try to
improve the methods of worship to appeal
to our culture will only end up
profaning it and as I've observed and I
I've not been around that many years but
I've watched this happen in the church
some of you have as well and this is
what I've seen every attempt to do that
every church that's ever tried to
improve the worship by well let's say
adding women speakers or teachers or who
have tried to add the instrument or
who've even moved communion out to be
able to have a longer service or jazzing
it up in some way or another it has not
done what they thought it would do it
has only ended up causing losses members
have quit churches have been split it is
not what we need to be tinkering with
there are things we need to Tinker with
we need to do a better job at evangelism
we need to do a lot of better job maybe
at fellowships we need to do a lot of
better jobs when we just sitting around
with each other and talking to each
other the way we speak to each other
there's a lot of things we could improve
on when it comes to the basic altar of
God we need to learn that God knows what
he's doing God knows what he's doing I
he doesn't need to explain it to you and
I
and you and I don't have to agree with
him I don't care if you agree with them
I don't care if I agree with doesn't
matter I didn't tell him to make the
altar out of uncut Stones why did he do
that you know why you profane when you
try to improve the sacred you just don't
do it there is a Simplicity of our
worship that can only give glory to an
infinite God who likes the broken
rock he likes it rough sorry if you
don't there is a beauty of the
Simplicity of only
voices in our
hearts of male leadership whether you
like that or not I know it doesn't fit
the culture we're
in it is the biblical
way and communion
Simplicity it's rough it's not always
beautiful it sometimes can be crude or
overly simple but it's not
profaned it is not putting the secular
ahead of the
spiritual there's a thing in Japanese
art called kungi and kungi is the
concept of the broken is more beautiful
than the one that's not broken and the
idea is that they'll get a pot and it
will actually be broken and so they
repair it but they don't repair prepare
it to hide the crack they prepare it and
fix it back to make the crack beautiful
so that you always see it they use
lacquer in there to stick it together
and then they use dust they put dust on
it and then they use gold and silver and
platinum dust so that the crack becomes
to be the beautiful thing about it it is
the Brokenness of it that makes it so
wonderful if you've ever walked through
a forest trees there's this kind of
thing that the Japanese talk about
called
Wasabi uh Sai Wasabi Sai and that's idea
that it is the Tangled mess of the trees
the the the bitterness even at times
when things can even look sad but the
trees the nature the sunrise the natural
elements of it as it is is exactly the
beauty from
God and I think sometimes we lose touch
that the Tangled limbs
untangle our minds it is exactly what
God knows we need we didn't need all the
trees to just be straight boards to
never intertwine we didn't need all the
rocks to be square and
flush we needed the jagged
edges and apparently God wants that
Simplicity in our worship so when we
pray we pray when we give we give when
we commune we commune when we sing We
Sing when we study the word we just
study the word and that's why even
obedience to the gospel to hear it to
believe it to
repent to confess to be baptized how
simple can you get it the
Simplicity profane
improvements only lead us away from god
let's focus tonight as we're singing on
the Simplicity of it all if you're not
right with God we want to give you that
opportunity it's always available that's
some you need right now you know your
need why don't you come in this next
song
