good morning
church hope you're
dry it's good to hear the rain though
didn't it I was just that last verse
about I can go to sleep I hope you don't
take that literal over the next few
minutes if you're new to us thank you
for coming our way we're grateful to
have any any and all that are new to us
but we're grateful to have those of you
who are regular God bless you for being
so faithful uh we're the creek side
Church of Christ and that means that uh
we're about a a few little things here
we're about worshiping God the Father
spirit and in truth that's our number
one job our number one purpose after
that we want to share Christ with
anybody and everybody that let us do it
talk to you about Christ on the cross
and Why That's essential a lot of people
don't understand the grace that provided
through the cross we want to do that and
how you can be saved through it and then
of course the transformation that comes
uh we're not conformed to the world but
we're transformed we'd like to see that
happen for you and then of course
serving the world around us by taking
care of those who have needs
particularly their spiritual needs but
always that's what we're about if you're
interested in what we're doing here
there's a QR code there you can take a
picture of that go to our website find
out exactly where we are financially on
this building process of all four
buildings and then some of the goals
that we have in mind there maybe even
watch the video of our building process
and where we're going with all this our
scripture that we've had over the last
uh couple of weeks if you want to say it
with me it's always good to voice your
faith and we do it in song but I think
it is essential that you actually say
words of Faith to boost your own faith
so maybe you can say it with us you
don't have to but love for you to do it
your word is a lamp to my feet and a
life to my PA that comes from Psalm
119 God bless you we're looking at today
excessive Church of Christ fears
excessive Church of Christ fears if you
would before we get into that let's
begin with a word of
prayer Holy
Father as
humans
um having descended from Adam who ate
the forbidden fruit we now have a
knowledge of Good and
Evil and so father we ate that forbidden
fruit and as a result of that we not
only know evil but we are worthy of
death and so all mankind can die
because we participated in that through
them Father in the middle of all that
though we know that Christ was
sent and saved us through the
cross and then rose
again showing us clearly our faith could
help us to not have any kind of
excessive
fear and we pray that that will be the
case today please father help us to seek
the comfort that we're supposed to have
in Christ it's in the name of Jesus we
pray
amen now I need to do a pre preface to
this
lesson um you know James 3 and verse one
says let not many of you be
teachers the reason is because you
received the a stricter judgment so
that's my lot in life nothing I can do
about
it I will receive a stricter judgment
than you will already do in this world
and will when I face the
Lord Isaiah
40 says Comfort ye Comfort ye my people
and I don't think I I was listening to a
guy the other day this is not my
thoughts I was listening to a church of
Christ preacher by the way and it hit me
it's
true uh sometimes we as preachers but
particularly me communicate poorly
and often I think my sermons make maybe
most of you feel like your situation
with Christ is
iffy that I may leave you with the
feeling of being
condemned and that you are maybe likely
lost I don't believe
that that is not my
thinking I think what happens is lessons
areep prepared like I prepare often for
the periphery of those around the edges
who are often not Christians not regular
members who attend from time to time in
an effort to reach them but you sitting
here may feel barraged by that from time
to time and that you feel like you're
not going to make it and that's not the
case and I don't believe that's the case
and I don't believe that you're likely
to be lost at all
so if that's been your understanding I
think you need to understand that I
think I have played a part in what we're
I'm going to be talking about today
which is excessive Church of Christ
fears in
1933 uh the darkness was the depression
and Franklin delanor Roosevelt got on
radio and made this one statement the
only thing we have to fear is fear
itself
I don't know if that's true but I do
think we do struggle with fear and they
were fearful because their financial
situation at the time there were two
explorers on Safari in Africa suddenly a
lion jumped in front of them out on the
Savannah one of the Explorers whispered
to the other one keep calm keep calm
remember what we read in that book on
animals and uh all we have to do is stay
perfectly still and look at the
lion straight in their eyes and the lion
will suddenly get afraid and turn away
from
us and His companion said sure sure sure
you read the book and I read the book
but did the lion read the
book well no he didn't Proverbs 30:30
says Lions don't do that Pro Proverbs
30:30 says a lion which is mighty among
beasts does not turn away from any so
that doesn't happen so if you're caught
out in the bush looking at a lion that's
not the solution you got to do something
else a gun would help I promise you I
want to talk about though there are
things that Christians
fear that really we shouldn't fear and
I've got giving you a list I don't know
if I'm going to go through all those
because it's 10 of them and it's a long
list if you pick out one right up there
right now that maybe is something that
does bother you look at that verse read
it I'll read through a few just show you
that there really are verses behind that
uh Financial loss 1 Samuel 2:7 says the
Lord makes poor and he makes rich he
brings low and lives high so whatever
your state is the Lord had a hand in it
so I wouldn't worry about it uh we Face
trials James 1: 2-4 my brethren count in
all joy when you fall into various
trials knowing that the testing of your
faith produces patience and let patience
have its perfect work that you may be
perfect and complete lacking nothing so
I won't go through all of those you see
one up there maybe a judgment day you're
going to be nervous and you think uh
naturally going to be nervous maybe you
look at that passage actually you're not
supposed to be scared on the Judgment
Day evil oh no evil there's so much evil
in the world Psalm 23:4 we talked about
this few we ago y though I walk through
the valley of the shadow of death I will
fear no evil for you're with me so
you're really not supposed to be afraid
of that Satan himself well not really
Romans 16:20 and the God of Peace will
crush Satan under your feet shortly you
really don't have to fear him now having
said all that and you pick one out and
you want to look it up that's great uh
there are what you need to understand
some sinful fears there really are you
can have an
excessive fear and you can have sinful
fears oh I didn't put that one in maybe
I didn't give it to you let me give you
a few scriptures on that Genesis 3 and:
10 talks about I have heard your voice
in the garden and I was afraid because I
was naked and I hid myself so there's
sometimes when we're afraid we're afraid
but it's actually a sinful fear it's a
dread of God and Hope Holiness I give
you another one James 2: 19 even the
demons believe and tremble so the devils
are afraid of being in God's presence
they've never really been there that way
Luke chap 19: 211 says for I feared you
because you are austere or that means
harsh or or severe and you collect what
you did not deposit and reap what you
did not seow so there's scared of the
master which in that story is a picture
of God himself and then John 3:1 19 we
read a moment ago is the condemnation
that the light has come into the world
and Men love Darkness rather than light
because their deeds were evil let me
show you how that's a fear that's
actually a fear they're actually people
who are afraid to go to church there're
actually people who are afraid to hear
the Bible I'm not kidding they're scared
of it they don't want to be near it uh
there's the fear of letting go of sin
and the dread of Holiness and CS Lewis I
don't know if you know CS Le but great
author brilliant man he wrote something
on this subject that I think is really
interesting it's called the Great
divorce it's not really about divorce in
the normal sense but it's called the
Great divorce and it's actually uh you
know a metaphor but it's a story that
starts in greytown in great toown in
this story is really supposed to image
hell everyone there is afraid of the
dark and few dare to take steps to board
the bus the bus arrives regularly and
the bus is from heaven and it takes you
to the light now they're afraid of the
dark but they are more afraid of the
light which is strange phenomenon so
they literally are afraid to get on the
bus that takes them to the city of light
where there's light so the bus arrives
it's beautiful it lands out in the the
field the meadow near the town and the
souls start screaming they say I don't
like it it gives me the P it makes me
depressed to see it and then of course
Lewis goes on to talk about the
residents of Heaven who were on the bus
who encouraging others to get on the bus
and Lewis writes to the ghosts uh two of
the ghosts are screaming and ran from
the bus
but the whole people who are on the bus
say um we want to help
you and the people are saying uh if you
have the least trace of decency feeling
for us keep away I don't want your help
I want to be left
alone now Their
Fear is the realization that to dwell in
heaven would mean I would have to give
up my self-
dependence my
misery my
anger my
grumbling I'd have to give that up and I
can't imagine a life without my
troubles isn't that a strange phenomenon
you say well that's just a story no
that's where people
live people can
imagine the idea of living in the
light it scares them and such unhealthy
and even what I would call sinful
fears plague even Christians from time
to time disciples Believers we in the
church and I'm going to suggest
something to you and you may not like
it hope you like me when it's over but
it's okay if you don't there
too I think you need to understand that
in the church it seems we've developed
our own set of inordinate
fears and they harm us and I've been a
part of it I want to give you seven of
the excessive Church of Christ fears
that I myself have seen oh I'm already
got on the first one look at that
passing through look at that passing
through you've already got the whole
lesson here we go number
one Matthew 25: 15-30 is the story I'm
not going to deal with the whole thing
but we have an excessive fear of
responsibility if you don't believe it
just stay with me just a minute and I'll
show you what I mean by that and I've
seen it so many times in the church it
is disturbing to me it says then he he
who had received the one Talent came and
said Lord I knew you to be a hard man
reaping where you have not sown and
Gathering where you have not scattered
seed and I was afraid and went and hid
your talent in the ground look there you
have what is
yours I believe as the Church of Christ
because we are so concerned about doing
everything
right we have an excessive fear of
teaching and being a leader in the
church we're scared to death of it I
don't know how many times I've heard men
who were qualified to be Elders back
away from it I don't know how many times
I've seen P qualified to be deacons back
away from it I don't know how many times
I've seen women and men back away from
being Sunday school teachers I don't
know know how many times I've seen that
like it's a plague like it's a
terrifying thing like oh I dare not try
that that's for special
people scared to death of the
responsibility oh yeah I see it all the
time and I think it's because we're so
concerned about doing what's right that
we think any Bible in a Bible class
would send me to
hell I could be wrong but there is a
fear there and I've seen it Among Us
number
two we have an excessive fear of
deficiency and by that you'll understand
what I mean in just a moment it says in
Acts 20 this is Paul talking to Elders
he says therefore I testify to you this
day that I'm innocent of the blood of
all men for I have not shun to declare
to you the whole counsel of God now I've
seen this often as a preacher I've seen
this fear of deficiency and by that what
I mean is
this how many times is somebody maybe
you've experienced it too I've had
people come to me and say I've taught
this person uh but and I think they want
to be baptized could you talk to them
and make sure I've told them everything
they need to
know how could they not have heard
everything they need to know if they
haven't heard from you everything they
need to know what did you do
tell them what you
did you've just told them everything
they need to know if you tell them what
you did if you're a Christian you can't
mess it
up and and and we are excessively afraid
that we will teach somebody and they
will to be a little Bobble and it's like
somebody's scared to death if somebody
throws their hand up while they're being
baptized well he's going to go to hell
for part of his hand stuck out of the
water it's that kind of silliness his
finger was out of the water his big toe
came out of the water he can't go to
heaven now or at least his to will go to
hell you know that's it's ridiculous
it's a an excessive fear it does that's
not reality and it doesn't
fit I have to have calls come in and say
do you think he know did I tell him
enough you have an excessive fear of
deficiency you know enough or you're not
a Christian
right
now number
three we have an excessive fear of
gullibility an excessive fear of it 1
Corinthians chapter 2 veres 1-5 and I
Brethren when I came to you did not come
with Excellency of speech or of wisdom
declaring to you the testimony of God
for I determined not to know anything
among you except Jesus Christ and him
crucified well that ain't
enough
listen to me there are people in the
church from time to time that have no
concept of what the cross did
Deuteronomy 2122 and
23 Deuteronomy chapter 21 verses 22 and
23 make it clear that Jesus faced the
curse for us in Galatians 3 and: 13
makes it clear that he was cursed for us
so that our curse could be removed
that's been done it's
done it is done it's simple and it's
done don't think that you're being
gullible if you believe it you're not
being gullible to believe that you're
being wise Romans 11:32 he can have
mercy upon us all because of that that's
not gullibility that's what the Bible
says we are excessively afraid of
accepting it as it says it as if
somebody doesn't stamp it in front of us
in a Bible class it can't be true it's
kind of goofy we get there uh we got to
be it's got to be more than the cross
it's got to be more than Grace I I it
must be
more otherwise I'm being gullible
no
no number
next we have an excessive fear that I've
observed of simplicity
a fear Simplicity in the church let me
show you a passage 2 Corinthians 11 uh
starting verse three I fear that somehow
as the serpent deceived Eve by his
craftiness so your minds may be
corrupted from the
Simplicity that is in Christ now listen
to
that verse four if he preaches another
Jesus whom uh we have not preached or if
you receive a different Spirit which you
have not received or different gospel
which you have not accepted you may well
put up with it let me go somewhere and
and I appreciate everybody wanting to do
the right thing I do I I want to do the
right thing I don't teach the right
thing I know you may think that I don't
I know from time to time you probably
disagreed with me and that's a good
thing by the way uh even my family
disagrees with me that might not be a
good thing but they do but bottom line
it's it's okay to disagree with a
preacher but listen to me um we are
excessively afraid that we have to
correct the scriptures even what do you
mean by
that the Bible is
fine I don't have to correct first
John I know some of you read first John
and say but we can't mean that we can't
mean what it says straight up it means
what it says amen it just means what it
says straight up every verse means what
it says straight up I don't have to
explain you say well you got to explain
it otherwise ignorant people will get it
wrong ignorant people are already
getting it wrong what are you talking
about that's not the problem just take
it for what it says amen whatever it
says be simple about it don't overthink
it and think you got to be smarter than
everybody else and explain the entire
scriptures to everybody you don't have
to God's Bible will save people you
don't even have to explain it in all but
if you think it's it's too unclear what
are you saying about the Holy
Spirit okay this is not just written by
men it's written by the Holy Spirit
don't start saying it's too
simple number
next we have an excessive fear of polity
now polity is just a a fancy word for
meaning government or Society or
political entity we got two fears on
this end on one end we're scared to
death of any kind of government
organization within the church I don't
want it either don't get me wrong don't
want that either so we're scared to
death of that right so we we we don't
even organize with each other we won't
even hardly cooperate within the
Churches of Christ y'all know we used to
cooperate more than we do now seems like
I remember a lot of things together I
don't see as much of that as more so we
it's partly because we're scared of
death partly just because we want to
boss our own congregations okay that's
part of it but the other side of that is
uh we we'll then turn around we'll flip
it around in a certain school now that
one's the good one and that other one's
the bad one and then the that preacher
you need to listen to that preacher or
that commentator writer and the other
one you don't need to listen to and
we're playing politics virtually in it
listen to Galatians chap 2: 6-10 it says
but from those who seem to be something
whatever they were it makes no
difference to me
God shows personal favoritism to no man
for those who seem to be something added
nothing to me but on the contrary when
they saw that the gospel for the
uncircumcised had been committed to me
as the gospel for the circumcised was to
Peter for he was worked effectively in
Peter for the apostleship to the
circumcised also worked effectively in
me toward the Gentiles and when James
cus and John who seemed to be pillars
perceived the grace that had been given
to me they gave me and Barnabas a right
hand of Fellowship that we should go to
the Gentiles in the day of the
circumcision listen to me name dropping
preachers has no effect on me does it
you seriously a name dropping a school
does that have an effect on you
seriously I I'm I'm trying to get to a
point here unless we intentionally are
trying to create a problem we
excessively are Afra afraid
of leaving some Church of Christ
preachers Doctrine more than leaving the
scriptures did you hear
that I've seen people more afraid of a
Preacher than they were of the
scriptures don't be afraid of some
preacher especially this one don't be
afraid of a preacher and his opinion
there is one God and one Bible folks
this thing ain't going to judge you
amen and ain't another one out there
going to do it either there is no polity
available to control your judgment day
nor is there a school out there a school
of thought that that's the boss it just
doesn't exist number next we have an
excessive fear of hypocrisy in the
Church of Christ and I I'll show you
what I mean by that not that you
shouldn't be afraid of hypocrisy or any
of these things to some degree but
listen to Galatians 2: 11 now when Peter
had come to Antioch I withstood him to
his face because he was to blame so
Peter could be wrong too for before
certain men came from James he would eat
with the Gentiles but when they came he
withdrew and separated himself fearing
those who the circumcision so apparently
he liked you know grits but he didn't
like it in front of them verse 13 and
the rest of the Jews also played the
hypocrite they played the hypocrite with
him so that even Barnabas was carried
away with their hypocrisy that playing
it all right we have all likely at
points been
hypocritical it's just a little bit of
human so you've likely being a
hypocrite I mean it's just likely we
have moments we have instances but it
doesn't make a
lifestyle unless you've intentionally
living a life of lies and deceit
you're not a
hypocrite we are excessively afraid of
fakes to the point that we think that we
become a fake without knowing
it no one becomes a fake without knowing
it you set yourselves for lies you
become a liar you act acting once does
not lying one time does not make you
forever a
liar you're not in danger of being a
terrible hypocrite unless you are doing
it
regularly so this idea about oh I've
slipped into it I might be the one
that's he's talking about Matthew chap
7: 21 he doesn't even know
me it's not likely my
friend number next this similar very
similar to that that concept there's an
excessive fear of apostasy scared to
death the church is going to slip into
apostasy any moment
scared to death you're going to slip
into apostasy any moment it is a
constant discussion Point 1 John 2 verse
19 the church is sliding from where it
used to be not that where it used to be
ought to be all that great verse 19 they
went out from us but they were not of us
for if they had been of us they would
have continued with us but they went out
that they might be made manifest that
none of them were of us but you have an
anointing for the Holy One and you know
all things I have not written to you
because you do not know the truth but
because you know it and it know lies of
the truth who is a liar here's what you
need to look for who is a liar but he
who denies that Jesus is the Christ he
is Antichrist who denies the father and
the son you keep faith in Jesus you're
not about to slip into apostasy just
because somebody disagrees with you at
church doesn't make you an apostasis
believer you believe in Jesus you
repented of your sins you confessed the
name of Christ you were baptized into
Christ you are a baptized believer you
are safe somebody says well I think
you're slipping into apostasy because we
disagree with I don't know how we hand
the communion out whatever it is don't
be
ridiculous you deny Christ okay we're
headed in that direction but don't sit
around being afraid all the time we
there's an excessive fear of Grace he's
preaching too much on own Grace we're
all going to end up leaving the church
he's not preaching Works
enough wake up it's not that simple that
suddenly one little lesson or one little
disagreement suddenly throws you into a
tail spin that you don't believe the
truth anymore and just because somebody
at church says something you don't agree
with doesn't mean the church is
apostasis so I'm just saying these are
excessive fears I'll walk you through it
really quick these are excessive fears
that we don't really need to have these
are just seven of them it's not
everything we have an excessive fear of
responsibility we really have a problem
with some of our people stepping up to
do things they really ought to do we
have an excessive fear of deficiency I'm
scared to death to bapt teach and
baptize somebody because I might not get
everything done and their big toe might
not be saved we have an excessive fear
of gullibility that suddenly you know
the truth is that it must be more
complicated than what I'm reading I
can't just believe it is it we have an
excessive fear Simplicity we're scared
to death or just letting the Bible speak
for itself sometimes I got to explain it
to everybody we have excessive fear
polity we think oh well we don't have
any leadership but then we quote brother
so and so and you better know he was
right and that's just not true I don't
have to do what brother so and so said I
have to do what the Bible says we have
an excessive fear hypocrisy and of
apostasy
there are good fears a respectful fear
of God his word amen it should make you
shake in your boots you disagree with
the Bible you ought to be
nervous but as we seen many of our fears
are really actually kind of wrong and
sinful and we hang on to them and they
don't do us any good many of our fears
are excessive and what they end up doing
is hinder us from even trying we're so
afraid sometimes of doing the wrong
thing we end up doing nothing at
all all right I'm give you a couple of
illustrations I'll be done we I think we
want to live without fear and to have
Jesus relieve all of our fears it
reminds me this little boy he's 5 years
old he's in the kitchen with his mom his
mom is making supper and he asked the
little boy go to the pantry and get a
can of tomato soup out well the Pantry's
in darkness and it's getting dark at
night and the little boy who's 5 years
old says well it's dark in there and I'm
scared his mom said well it'll be okay
go ahead go ahead go get me a I don't
all I want is a can of tomato soup go in
the pantry and get me a can of tomato
soup and the little boy says I don't
know it's dark in there mama and he's
and she says well it's okay Jesus will
be with you in the
pantry so the little boy walks over to
the pantry and he kind of opens opens
the door and he looks in it's dark he
looks in he he almost walks back to his
mom and disobeying her one more time and
then all of a sudden he goes he thinks
of something really smart and he says
Jesus if you're in there could you hand
me a can of tomato
soup I think that's what we want Jesus
to do to get us out of any kind of fear
and I think we want to live without fear
so much that
we have totally overcome them and I
don't believe that's going to
happen I don't believe that's going to
happen totally during World War II a
military Governor met up with uh General
George Patton in Sicily right this is
when they took
Sicily and he praised Patton highly for
his courage and his bravery then General
Patton said
this
sir I am not a brave
man the truth is I am a
coward I have never been within the
sound of gunshot or in sight of battle
in my whole life that I wasn't
scared that I had scared so much that I
sweat in the palms of my hands just to
be standing
there now you think was that really the
way he felt years later when his
biography was published it contained
this statement I learned very early in
life never to let my
fears take control of my life oh yes he
had fears we all do so many I I
believe many of us in the church have
become slightly cowardly and I don't
think we should we're we're afraid to
try and I think we need to try we're
afraid to do I mean even some of what
we're trying to do on this property some
people are scared to death about it
scared to death about it I don't know if
that's
scriptural so afraid afraid to take on
something afraid to rebuke something
afraid to speak a word for God as afraid
to believe afraid to believe the Bible
as says afraid to believe in grace and
what it does to us it it would be okay I
suppose if it's just what's going on in
your head but what it does to us is it
prevents us from
trying and we end up sitting on a Pew 40
years in the church and all we ever did
was set on a Pew and so we Face the Lord
how do I do lord well you set really
nice was a good good
seat I want to do more anybody with me
on that hey amen I want to do more and I
think as the Church of Christ is I love
it oh giving my life to it I intend to
die giving my life to it but let's get
over a little bit of that let's actually
do something amen if you're here today
and you had been doing anything maybe
it's a chance you need to turn it around
I don't know you can pray about it where
you are if you need our help we'll help
you any way we can w't you come while we
stand while we
sing
perfectace
in
the
Jesus
perect
Peace by
call
Jesus
peace perfect
our
future
all
Jesus
we
know he
is
the
soon shall
see and
Jesus
to please
seated
