now I need to preface this lesson just a
little bit um you need to understand a
couple of little truths Les you
misunderstand something I'm teaching
today one cannot read the Bible
particularly the Old Testament but one
cannot read the Bible from front to back
and not see in it like what's taught in
Deuteronomy or the Kings or
Chronicles and not recognize that
blessings and
troubles were connected to man's Deeds
both good and
bad now you might have wandered away
from that concept it's not appropriate
to wander away from that concept that is
a
Biblical foundational
concept however
it's also true that one cannot read the
Bible and read stories like
job stories like Joseph or stories like
Jesus and not end up refusing to
judge others who are having bad things
happening in their
life both of those concepts are
true and you need to accept it if you
need more study would be glad to study
with you further on that but that's like
a preface to everything I'm going to
talk about today okay and both things
are true and it's
complicated so we want to walk through
introduction has blanks to fill in if
you would like the first thing I want
you to talk about briefly is double
cursings such things exist song the song
of witches by William Shakespeare is
interesting and in MC Beth you probably
remember it double double toall in
trouble right but balum actually did
this now most of you might not have read
a passage that you need to read on this
subject and I'm point you to it here in
just a moment but he tried to curse
Israel you recall that and he did it for
money he was willing to curse Israel for
money you remember that okay but God did
not allow him to you remember the
intervention of the Angel and his donkey
you remember all of that okay so he was
not allowed to curse Israel he only
blessed them right however that's not
the end of the story they killed balum
later and the reason Israel killed balum
is for the passage that's often missed
which is in deuteron not Deuteronomy but
numbers 31:16 you might want to take a
look at it numbers 31:16 says this look
and you'll remember the story of of
numbers 25 1-3 about the matter of Bal
peor you remember that do you remember
the women getting involved with the men
in b peor and a plague broke out 24,000
Israelites died as a result of that
plague and as a result of Israel killing
those who were involved in that activity
you remember that 24,000 people died
this is balam's
Fault do Deuter I mean why I keep saying
Deuteronomy numbers
31:16 look these women caused the
children of Israel through the Council
of balum to trespass against the Lord in
the instant of peor and there was a
plague among the congregation of the
Lord so balum attempted to curse once
succeeded the second
time a double
cursing second thing I want you to see
is a double blessing is talked about in
the scriptures a double blessing is
something like 2 Kings chapter 2 and
ver9 and so it was when they had crossed
over this is Elijah and Elisha they
crossed over the Jordan that Elijah said
to Elisha ask what may I do for you
because he wouldn't leave him ask what
may I do for you before I'm am taken
away from you and Elisha said please let
a double portion of your spirit be upon
me now the midrash which is basically
the Jewish version of the Old Testament
with along with commentary and all says
that Elijah did eight Miracles and
Elisha did 16 literally double just like
it says he got a double blessing in
Isaiah 61:7 it says this instead of your
shame you shall have double honor
interesting and instead of confusion
they shall rejoice in their portion
therefore in their land they shall
possess double Everlasting Joy shall be
there so it is possible to be blessed
with a double blessing to have double
what you had before we see this
Zechariah 9:12 when it says return to
the stronghold you prisoners of Hope
even today I declare that I will restore
double to you unless you miss that it's
in the book of job job as you know lost
everything he had but job 42:10 says and
the Lord restored job's losses when he
prayed for his friends indeed the lord
gave job twice as much as he had before
so there is such a thing as a double
cursing there is such a thing as a
double
blessing and there's such a thing as a
double honor a double honor is something
that's discussed primarily in the New
Testament now we are to respect everyone
okay unless somebody proved that they
shouldn't be respected we're supposed to
respect everyone right but especially
we're supposed to respect those who are
in leadership positions in the kingdom
of God because that's far above
everything out there in the world the
most important thing is leadership in
the kingdom of God so respect and
submission to those who are over us for
their good works sake first
Thessalonians 5:13 esteem them very
highly in love for their works sake so
it's not just an esteem that you know
logs them but it's more about loving
them but then there's a that's the first
honor the first honor is that of respect
and submission what's a double honor the
double honor is talked about in 1
Timothy 5:1 17 1 Timothy 5:17 it is
discussing Elders there and it says this
about Elders let the elders who rule
well be counted worthy of double honor
that is respect and honor that you would
give through love but the second form
especially those who labor in the word
and Doctrine so the word honor in the
New Testament does not just mean respect
we know that from Matthew chapter 15
when we we were instructed that some of
those there were not honoring their
parents because they took what they
would have helped them the money they
would have helped them with and they
Comm committed it to a gift to God and
they thought they were justified in not
taking care of their parents of course 1
Timothy 5:8 nullifies that concept
you're supposed to take care of your
family but the point is is that through
the New Testament Honor doesn't just
mean respect it also carries with it
particularly with your parents money
taking care of them financially so when
it says that we should give double honor
to the men in 1 Timothy 5:17 it's
talking about the idea of respecting and
if they're serving in the word and
teaching and going out and doing
Ministry they should be paid so that's
the two things it means so that's the
double honor but then we come to the
concept of Double Trouble that's your
next Point double
trouble this is reserved not for the
world this is reserved for you and I
according to what I Now understand it's
reserved for you and me to receive
double trouble don't like the sound of
it do you I don't even like why are we
even talking about this that's what
where I'm at see
unfaithfulness leads on our part
potentially to double trouble why why in
the world would God allow Double Trouble
to fall on us to drive
us back to God there's examples of it
but let me give you a scripture Isaiah
40:2 says speak Comfort to Jerusalem and
cry out to her that her welfare is ended
that her iniquity is pardoned for she
has received from the Lord's hand double
for her sins what does that mean well
they were in captivity and they had
sinned and that's why they
went but they didn't just get paid back
enough they got pay back double what it
means is they didn't really deserve it
as bad as it got in that text that's
what it means they got double for their
sins can that happen well let's talk
about the prodigal son what's a prodical
son do you ever thought about it so the
prodical
son abandons his father abandons his
family abandons all he's ever known
leaves the country right not really a
nice thing to do right but more than
that so he leaves first thing that goes
wrong I don't know if you know this but
I don't care how much money you make you
can spend it all he spent it all he
spent it all he spent all it wasn't
anything left he spent it all so that's
the first thing that happened to him the
second thing that happened is then a
famine struck what a
time do you think there's no
connection because the famine Struck it
drove him into the the field drove him
into the field made him think he hadn't
been thinking he'd been having fun he
thought suddenly God got his attention
you know what there's food in my
father's
house I'll go back and I'll get do the
best I can maybe he'll just make me a
higher servant I'll be able to eat right
I won't be in this pig
trough not only the prodigal but if you
remember Judah what happened to Judah I
just mentioned a little bit of it but
here's what they did they went into sin
right went off into believing in all
these other
gods so Babylon comes in and defeats
them that's trouble number one trouble
number two is living in Babylon because
they were enslaved they were in
captivity they did what they told him to
do every
day what a way to live Double Trouble
what do he make them do when they went
back I don't know if you know this but
when Israel finally went back they never
left God not again like that not like
that not like that and didn't go into
paganism again they did they went off
the rails and stuff but not into
paganism again so it's like the prodigal
it's like Judah going back it's like
Jonah do you remember Jonah I don't want
to do what you said I don't want to go
help Nineveh right what's the first
thing that happens he gets on the boat
he leaves first things happen storm hits
I guess that's just a natural thing to
happen storm comes up and then they says
well the only way you can get out of
this boys is throw me overboard so they
throw him overboard I think that's a bad
day right there until problem number two
a fish swallows
him what did that do to him why would
that happen what did it do for him you
read the chapter you know he turns back
to God that's what God says now this
happens over and over again not just
enough to punish you so it's not just
about punishing God's not just about
punishing he's trying to get you to go
home
go home go home double trouble and in
the midst of a drought why do you think
the drought was happening in First Kings
chapter 18 why was the drought hen
happening why did Elijah pray for the
drought the reason is get them to go
home quit halting between two opinions
couldn't make up their mind he want to
serve the Lord and the one will serve
Baal which one you going to
do in the middle of that that's when
verse 21 says and Elijah said to all the
people how long will you falter between
two opinions if the Lord is God follow
him and ba follow him but the people
answered not a
word now I'm tell you something that's a
little scary because here's the truth we
all got plenty of troubles job 3 verse
26 uh troubles come job 5:7 man is born
to trouble every one of us got trouble
anybody says he doesn't have trouble is
a
liar job 14:1 man is a few days and full
of trouble so this idea about oh well it
trouble's too hard on me I'm telling you
everybody in the room could probably
make that
statement everybody's got
something so double trouble you mean
really here's the deal I would never
judge you on your trouble because I
don't know and you say well you're
trying to suggest to me maybe I need to
go back to God maybe but I don't know
I don't know you you said yeah you do
you go to church with me no I don't know
you God knows you
okay God may be going come on come on
come on get it straight I don't know I'm
telling you such a thing as double
trouble can happen and has happened and
it could happen to you but when you come
back remember what it said in Isaiah as
a double blessing you see God can do
that too got to do that too so Double
Trouble is the last problem or inability
or
unwillingness of the unfaithful to make
a decision see our problem is sometimes
we get into trouble because we just
won't make a decision we won't make a
commitment some of you never and I'm not
trying to be ugly here I just want to
make a point some of youve never made a
commitment to the Lord ever you're here
here under duress somebody got you up
this morning and made you
come it might have been your wife it
might have been your husband it might
have been your grandma grandpa I don't
know but whatever it was you're here but
not really here because you love the
Lord Jesus and you can't be anywhere but
in the presence of the Lord to worship
and you want this more than anything not
everybody sitting here feels that
way but sometimes God nudges you and say
say you know it's about time maybe you
quit halting between two and make a
decision so maybe today is a message for
you and here's the deal remember what I
preface this on bad things happen but
that ain't always the reason they happen
it's because your good deeds or your bad
days good things happen it's not always
good things don't always happen to you
because you're such a wonderful person
quit saying that oh I'm so blessed
because I'm such a wonderful person I'll
get over
yourself or I'm so cursed because I'm
such a bad person I'll quit saying that
too but there is such a thing as a nudge
from the
Lord and you ought to pay attention pay
attention all right we're going to make
really three quick points okay here we
are number one the double trouble of
being double-heart these are all very
similar so we're not going to take too
long on this but they're all very
similar you can have a double heart
Psalm 12:2 says they speak idly everyone
with his neighbor with flattering lips
and a double heart they speak so what's
coming out is from their heart that's
the reason Matthew 12 and: 34 says how
can you being evil speak good things for
out of the abundance of the heart the
mouth speaks sometimes we find out what
your heart is really like by what comes
out and what you express is what your
your affections are your desires your
words but what this is talking about
this is a person that's in sin and is
Unfaithful who you cannot trust there
heart no matter what they say they may
mean it right now but they may not mean
it in 15 minutes so the double trouble
of being double-heart the second little
point I want you to see that scriptures
talks about is the double trouble of
being double-minded it says in Psalm 119
we actually dealt with this last week
Psalm 11 19113 this is reason it was on
my heart I hate the double-minded but I
love your law double-mindedness James
talks about this a couple of times James
chapter 1 ver8 says he is a
double-minded man unstable in all his
ways can it make up his mind what he
wants he doesn't know if he wants to
pray for wisdom he doesn't know if he
wants to endure problems James 4:8 says
this draw near to God and He will draw
near to you cleanse your hands you
Sinners and purify your hearts you
double-minded what that means is part of
the reason that our hearts are not what
they ought to be is because we haven't
made up our mind on what we really want
it's our thoughts are intent so this is
a person again in sin and who's in
unfaithfulness who you really cannot
trust what they think they tell you what
they think but you can't trust what they
think they may agree with you to keep
you happy keep you friendly but they may
totally disagree with you in real
life so number
three there so there is such a thing as
a double-heart a double-minded and then
the trouble
can be double for being double tonged
now this one is probably more of a
dangerous thing to a church than
anything I mentioned so far because the
others just are dangerous to you in your
personal life this however can actually
be a problem to a church because it's
actually talking about deacons so
deacons listen up this is not focused to
Elders this is focus to those of you who
dare to be a deacon God bless you for
daring but be alert
1 Timothy 3:8 it says likewise deacons
must be reverent that means respectful
but serious uh worthy of respect a grave
mind not double tonged come back to that
in just a second obviously that's the
point here not double tongue not giving
to much wine not greedy for money not
double tongue world's wor thing to do is
have a group of deacons under a group of
Elders who are the deacons are double
tonged they're
untrue they want to be the
boss but they don't say it that way
they're divisive they create drama
people who create drama and trouble are
you
listening create drama and trouble
Philippians 1 vers1 says Paul and
Timothy Bond Servants of Jesus Christ
all the saints in Christ Jesus who in
Philippi with the Bishops and deacons
it's great to have deacons that's a
wonderful gift to the church if you are
a deacon God bless you for taking on
that mantle absolutely I mean that 100%
but you need to be
aware that some deacons undermine
eldership we have members who do that
all the time we know that we know that
there's always somebody creating drama
somebody that's Whispering we know that
you you think we don't know you think
that that doesn't H that we're not
whereare that happen oh yeah I can't
believe the elders did this how stupid
are the elders yeah that happens all the
time they never say that about the
preacher but say it all the time about
that this is a person in sin and
unfaithfulness and you cannot
trust that they're on your
side such deacons may lead a division a
split against the elders you ever seen
such thing oh yeah not successful ones
but I've seen it
yeah so th this is interesting so these
are very similar to each other if you
pay attention to be double-heart
double-minded double tongue that's this
essence of the lesson today this is a
person though that's in sin and they're
in unfaithfulness and you really can't
trust them but the real problem is
internal what kind of problem is their
internal problem they aren't
focused that's their real problem
they're incapable of making a real
decision to focus on what is right and
true and just no matter what that's what
they haven't done they do not have
Elijah's focus on the Lord now listen to
me in the middle remember we I talked
about Elijah at the beginning you know
what didn't
happen Elijah didn't have to be begged
to make the Lord his God
there was no question in Elijah's
mind so much was he convinced of it that
he prayed Lord don't let it rain on
these
people three and a half years in and
people were
dying don't let it rain on these people
yet Lord not until they repent we'll go
up on the mountain we'll offer a
sacrifice don't let it don't let it rain
on until fire dry drops on the altar
Lord don't let it happen see there was
no question in his mind he he was
focused on what mattered he knew what
matter but the people had not made up
their mind you know what they were
waiting on they were waiting on
something
external to convince them which way they
ought to
go yeah if something you know if
something happens in my life that
convinces me that God really loves me
then I'll
believe wow it's it's all about you
huh so Lightning's got to fall on your
altar before you'll believe that's where
they
were but it isn't where Elijah
was so it's tough when you have people
who are double-heart double-minded and
double
tonged this is a cell
phone it's not
on but it is the cell phone yes I own
one well I I don't this belongs to the
church but
yeah cell phone I don't know if you know
this
but people get distracted with this
thing in fact hospital emergency
rooms from
injuries from cell phones has quadrupled
in the past seven years
quadrupled on average there's
1,152 serious serous injuries in
hospital emergency
rooms for that was just last year for
having been looking at their cell phone
instead of paying attention to what was
going on let me give you a few examples
one as a 24 year old woman who walked
into a telephone pole while she's
texting went to the emergency room a 28y
old man was walking along a road when he
fell into a ditch while he was talking
on his cell
phone a 12-year-old boy was looking at
video games on his cell phone while a
pickup truck was coming by and because
he was too far out in the road not
paying attention to where he's walking
he got clipped by the pickup truck ended
up in the emergency room a
bicyclist a bicyclist who was talking on
his cellone ran into a 67y old
pedestrian a bicyclist ran in into a
pedestrian cuz he's talking on his cell
phone a California man who was texting
his boss and nearly strolled into the
path of a
400b black
bear he's out
walking texting all of a sudden there's
a
bear well he ended up in the hospital I
don't know what
happened news Outlet says texting while
walking is less dangerous than texting
while
driving but as the Black Bear story
proves it demonstrates that a it's still
a good idea to be aware of your
surroundings what am I trying to
say what we call multitasking when I was
young was just not paying
attention some of you think you can do
two things at once and and I may be
talking to women here I don't mean
anything but y'all y'all kind of Juggle
stuff it's really you're really just
doing one thing at a
time you really are your brain really
just does one good thing at a time pay
attention gentlemen you really can only
do one thing at a time I know you think
you're so smart you can do too but you
really you just do my point what's my
point
double-mindedness will get you into
double trouble it's not good to be
double-heart it's not good to be
double-minded it's not good to speak
double tonged because what you really
are when you're double-minded is you're
half-hearted you're not double-heart
you're half-hearted you're not
double-minded you're half-minded you're
not double tongues you're half Tong half
of what you're saying is true the rest
of it we don't know we have no idea so
let's be one-heart one mind and one
tongue let's be like Elijah I don't need
somebody to convince me to serve the
Lord you don't need a preacher what do
you need a preacher for come on do you
really need me to encourage you to serve
the come on grow up make a decision get
on his side amen get on the Lord's Side
who's on the Lord's Side remember that
Levites coming over and killing their
Brethren who's on their Lord's Side you
make up your mind amen make up your mind
and quit walking around I don't even
know what I did with it with your cell
phone and acting like you're oblivious
quit walking around life like that
oblivious to what's going on around you
quit walk quit walking into church
oblivious to what we're actually doing
here which is
worshiping The King The Great I Am the
one and only true and living
God let's think about it
amen don't get in Double Trouble where
he has to drive you back to him serve
him Faithfully
if you need the Lord today we'll help
you every way we can make it known while
we stand while we
sing
