I need to sincerely say
upfront that uh while I've been married
a little
while I've been wrong more often than
I've been
right in my own marriage in my own
family and I do not feel at all
qualified to speak on the subject of
family uh but that's okay because you
don't need me to be qualified or know
what I'm talking about all you need me
to do is share with you what the Bible
says and God is fully
qualified
amen but it kind of reminds me of a
Peanuts cartoon I read one
time uh it seems that nobody reads those
anymore but once upon a time lonus and
Charlie Brown and Lucy were standing on
a hill
and they all laid down on their backs
and started looking up at the clouds and
Lucy said aren't those clouds beautiful
they look like big balls of cotton and
as they lay there for a minute Lucy said
you know I could just lie here all day
and watch them drift by and if you use
your imagination you can see lots of
things in the clouds formation what do
you think you see lonus and lonus said
well
those clouds up there look to me like
the map of the British Honduras on the
car Caribbean and that up there that
cloud there looks a little like the
profile of Thomas Akens the famous
painter and sculptor and that group of
clouds over there gives me the
impression of the stoning of Steven I
can see the Apostle Paul standing there
to one side
watching Lucy said
uh-huh that's very good and what do you
see in the clouds Charlie Brown Charlie
Brown pauses for a moment he says well I
was going to see I saw a ducky and a
horsey but I've changed my
mind that's kind of the way I feel if
I'm going to tell you how to live your
life with your
family trying to follow God's original
design drove me to
Genesis doing whatever God calls us to
do is a serious matter
though the family as God's Divine
institution is a serious matter and we
have grave responsibilities in
it we must not get
distracted by all that goes on in this
world CU we can easily do that and get
our mind focused on what doesn't matter
and forget what does matter and forget
our important responsibilities in our
family being distracted by having just
fun or just doing what we want to do
Clovis Chapel about a century ago told a
story that really illustrates that
idea he said that on the Mississippi
there used to be uh boats that go up and
down on the Mississippi River and carry
cargo and crew Up and Down the River
well they would go from Memphis to New
Orleans y'all know that area
probably and as these particular two
boats pulled out of
Memphis they were s beside and that was
fine but one of the sailors apparently
chirped a little bit at the other boat
talking about how they were going a
snail's pace and that their boat would
be much F Well words were exchanged and
several Sailors got involved and they
started yelling taunts at each other and
a challenge was made and now instead of
it being a ride for cargo and crew it
became a race and the competition got
vicious as they went
Southward one of the boats began to fall
a little further behind than the other
one and they didn't have enough fuel
they had enough fuel enough coal if they
were just going the normal way but now
that they were trying to race they were
burning up their fuel much faster so
they were running out of fuel and
falling further behind and until one
young sailor had an enterprising idea he
said I think some of our cargo would
burn and they threw it in and lo and
behold it burned better than almost than
their Co had been burning and so they
began to toss all their cargo into the
oven and sure enough they got there
before the other boat they won the race
but when they got there they had no
cargo they ended up winning but they
burned their cargo to
win you've been entrusted with the
cargo to get it from point A to point
B the idea of burning up your cargo so
you can get to what you want faster is a
ludicrous
idea but they did
it our
cargo has to reach its
destination its destination in life but
more particularly in heaven that's your
duty that's what we must do so let's try
to be responsible with with our cargo
right families amen let's get them and
let's let's stay focused on the design
that God gave us and not cast aside our
cargo or some kind of distraction of
having
fun from the first three chapters of the
book that we call the Bible we're going
to look at just three ideas this morning
and I think um it might give you some
pause to think of how important the
family is I hope that's what it does for
you number one so as well that's not
number one this is number one number
one God's creation designed for the
family is found in Genesis chapter 1 so
I would encourage you if you carry a
real Bible that you open it up if you
have one of them electronic things you
can do that too it's going to be chapter
one chapter 2 and chapter 3 three simple
points this morning Genesis chapter 1
I'm going to begin at verse 26 and read
through verse 29 Lord willing then God
said let us make man in our image
according to our likeness let them have
dominion over the fish of the sea over
the birds of the air and over the cattle
over all the Earth and over every
creeping thing that creeps on the earth
so God created man in his own image in
the image of God he created him male and
female he created them then God blessed
them and God said to them be fruitful
and
multiply fill the Earth and subdue it
have dominion over the fish of the sea
over the birds of the air and over every
living thing that moves on the Earth and
God said see I have given you every herb
that y'll seed which is on the face of
the Earth and every tree whose fruit
yields seed to you it shall be for
food and basically that message to us in
the family because that's the origin of
the
family live leaves with us about four
ideas the creat of a
comparison he uses the word
likeness that we would be in his
likeness and then he says male and
female what that means to us it should
mean to us is that we are similar but
not the
same we are similar to God we are
definitely not the same
amen a man and a woman are similar but
they are definitely not the same and
we're not to confuse that in our home
while we are similar we are not the same
we must stop thinking that the other one
thinks the way I think we must stop
thinking that they are the way I am they
are
not
comparison creation also leaves for us
in the family A concept of dominion but
look at the Dominion it's dominion over
all the Earth over the
Earth over the creatures of the earth
what isn't said in this text is that
you'll have dominion over any people
group or over each other at this moment
they're absolutely co- region Adam's
created slightly earlier so he has a
little bit of a place where he might
lead but 1 Timothy 2 and ver14 sin had
not entered yet so they were more co-
Regent that's a message to you and I if
we're in a Christian family husbands and
wives we really should serve more like
co- Regents yes the male because he was
here first gets a little bit but mainly
we should be co- Regents the idea of
dominating people is not really really
in the teachings that we want it to be
men and then the creation of
multiplication is an interesting concept
multiply F and subdue now that often we
might miss it but it's suggesting
intimacy between the male and the female
which implies children feeling the Earth
and subduing it all these are our
responsibility
but here's the thing something you
should recognize in the world that
believes that we've got too many people
God never thought that way he had a goal
of filling this world you're worried
about something he wasn't worried about
maybe you need to trust him and have all
the children you want to have and don't
let numbers get in your
way
multiplication but with everyone
comes
responsibility and then there's the
creation for provision he talks about
herbs but he also talks about fruit from
trees now you'll notice he doesn't
mention animals in this text have you
noticed that there's no discussion of
I've given you the lizard or the the pig
or the cow to eat did you notice that
that's not in this text this is before
sin and death entered for you to eat a
cow the cow Must Die generally so before
sin and death had entered God fed us in
the garden but he fed us with fruits and
vegetables yes you were intended to eat
fruits and vegetables does that mean
it's wrong to eat the other no but you
got to understand that's as a result of
the sin issue and so before that we must
eat whatever he had provided there by
bottom line of this though we're living
under sin and a stake is not sin now for
us to do but we are under that curse so
in the family as God designed God's
creation design has patterns for us that
we should pay attention to we often
don't we get distracted and we start
burning cargo number
next God's Proclamation design is found
in chapter two in Chapter 2 there's a
Proclamation designed for the family
begins verse 21 and the Lord God caused
a deep sleep to fall on Adam and he
slept and he took one of his ribs and
closed up the Flesh in its place then
the rib which the Lord God had taken
from the man he made into a woman and he
brought her to the man and Adam said
this is now bone of my bones and Flesh
of My Flesh she shall be called woman
because she was taken out of man
therefore a man shall leave his father
and mother and be joined to his wife and
they shall become one flesh the
significance of all of this is lost on
us T we tend to just read it as the
story but actually has a much greater
meaning than that in Ephesians chapter
5: 31 and 32 it speaks to that meaning
in verse 32 after quoting a man leaves
his father and mother and Cleaves to his
wife and those two shall become one
flesh verse 32 says I speak concerning
Christ and the church so there's a
greater message in this so when it
speaks of Adam in our understanding
there's also the proclamation meaning of
1 Corinthians 15 the second adom there
is the second adom the first Adam was
the one God created the second Adam is
called Christ and so there is a
proclamation in that story a prophetic
utterance that we and family should
recognize because our family structure
and the way we conduct our business
proclaims the truth about Christ and his
church the proclamation suggests
Incarnation it says a man shall leave
what did Jesus left he left his throne
of Glory he left his father he left his
mother which is the heavenly Jerusalem
and he was made flesh like a man and
then he humbled himself and became
obedient as a servant that's what
Philippians chapter 2 says happened so
literally this story of man who did not
exist and he then saying that he will
leave his father and mother and cleave
to his wife there was a leaving involved
that suggests the Incarnation of Christ
later and then the proclamation is also
suggestive of the crucifixion and the
death of Christ when it say says that a
deep sleep came over Adam and he slept
while he was asleep his Rib was taken
which is a parallel to what Jesus did
when he was obedient to the point of
death even death on the cross and that a
spear pierced his side right where the
woman was taken from so after the cross
the message is the crucifixion and that
story is in this and so literally our
situation we find ourself is proclaiming
the Incarnation of Christ it our life
our relationship with our mate is
proclaiming the crucifixion of Christ
and then the proclamation of the
Resurrection because he says this is now
when he wake up when he woke up he
realized that he was looking at his wife
here's the thing Jesus when he arose
from the dead appeared to the disciples
and what follows immediately his wife
3,000 are baptized on the day day of
Pentecost and there is his bride and
that's the bride that he has today you
are that bride and there was great
rejoicing then there's the proclamation
in this original story for the
unification when he says the Flesh of My
Flesh will be joined together when we
become one
flesh no longer different but the same
you and your mate you share DNA now you
share literally you're kind of the same
creature now if you've been married for
any time you're even starting to act
like look like I'm sorry didn't mean to
offend anybody but you kind of look like
each other now you start acting like
each other you're literally becoming
like one thing I mean when I'm talking
to one of them I feel like I'm talking
to the other one you know what I'm
talking about well at least the other
one does okay
so he no longer different we are one and
so too with him that message is we are
no longer different we are one with him
Ephesians 2 there becomes one man
there's no longer any such thing as
saying a separation we're now one it's
not male female we are now a family it's
no longer the man and the woman it's
it's the man woman it's unity and so to
it is the Christ Church the church
Christ it becomes one thing and there's
no longer race nationality or gender or
any of the meaning of those things
anymore because now we are all one and
we're that one new man and we speak of
that as a family so in the family as God
designed it Not only was there creation
design in it but there's a proclamation
design in it literally our family
demonstrates Christ in the church the
last lesson I want to give you is God's
imprecation or curse it's what an
imprecation is designed for the family
there's a curse on the
family and and you need to know it and
you need to be aware of it because it
affects you every day this idea well I'm
a Christian now and so we're not going
to have any problems you're
mistaken
badly listen to what it says I'm want to
pick up verse 16 we'll get back to verse
15 in a minute of Genesis chapter 3 I
said chapter 1 chapter 2 now we're on
chapter 3 chapter 3 if you're there look
at verses 16-9 to the woman he said I
will greatly multiply your SAR and your
conception ladies listen to me do you
hear
that maybe you didn't hear it have you
ever heard it before he's talking to
women multiply your sorrow and your
conception in
pain you shall bring forth children your
desire shall be for your husband and he
shall rule over
you that's a new rule verse 17 then to
Adam he said because you've heeded the
voice of your wife that's a new
indictment and have eaten from the Tree
of which I commanded you wasn't a
problem listen to your wife it's a
problem listen to your wife over over
your God eaten from the Tree of which I
commanded you saying you shall not eat
of it you listen to her not to me cursed
is the ground don't don't be mistaken
the ground you stand on is cursed
you hear
me this world is
cursed it's going to be fixed but it's
cursed right now cursed is the ground
for your sake that's for your sake not
just theirs your sake cursed is the
ground for your sake in toil he's
talking to the man in toil gentlemen in
toil in toil
gentlemen you shall eat of it all the
days of your life he mentions that
because you're going to die verse 18
both thorns and thistles things are not
going to go right Works going to go
wrong there's going to be hard times
brace yourself thorns and thistles it
shall bring forth for you and you shall
eat of the herb of the field in the
sweat of your face you shall eat bread
till you return to the ground for out of
it you were taken for dust you are and
to dust you shall return so here's the
implications the curses the Imp ation of
the conception multiplying your sorrow
ladies and your conception and your pain
wives and mothers have special
concerns wives and mothers have special
Sorrows wives and mothers have special
conceptions and
pain birth
issues problems that men do not have nor
do they understand
them and if you expect your husband to
understand it you're going to have a
long long long upset because he is not
going to get
it he has his own thing that you might
not understand either he does not
understand you but what gentlemen you
should do is respect them because of
what they have to go through and it
ain't what you got to go
through because they're so sensitive
they hurt much more than we tend to
hurt you should know
that they go through more pain than we
do the implication is also for
Domination there's a struggle now
because of sin entering the world and
we're under the curse of this sin that
we will try to outd dominate each other
it says your desire shall be for your
husband and he shall rule over you you
want to get him but he will try to get
you and control you if you don't think
that's going on you haven't been married
very long wives will be cursed to desire
to have your husband but he by order sin
and strength will rule over you
and this will be a curse of struggling
for power and that's the reason we argue
until sometimes we'll fall
asleep argue about things that shouldn't
be argued about that's the curse there's
the implication of profession This falls
on you gentlemen listen to me gentlemen
this is your curse cursed is the ground
you stand on
gentlemen toil is a ahead of you Thorns
things will prick you thistles it will
scrape you you will
sweat husbands and fathers have toils
they have thorns they have thistles they
have stresses they have sweat issues and
problems that women do not have or
understand oh I understand no you
don't if you can accept that I don't
understand you quit thinking you
understand me
amen amen
wall no respect though from women is a
bad thing a man should respect Every
Woman here amen
gentlemen
women you need to respect every man here
and quit thinking you got us figured out
cuz that's usually a sign you don't know
what you're talking about usually when I
hear somebody oh I know what my man's
like I'm listening I'm going yeah right
yeah right that's probably the reason
your marriage might not last because you
think you do
know gentlemen same for you there should
be a
respect because we're both under a curse
it's hard enough as it is let's don't
make it
worse number oops went back didn't mean
to do that one L thing the implication
for
Destruction says you return to the
ground to the dust you shall return and
wives and husbands and children this is
everybody now will
suffer everybody in your family is going
to suffer quit thinking you're the only
one that suffers we all suffer now your
suffering might be worse in many
respects of mine that's right but every
one of us
suffer and every one of us
die I'm looking at a bunch of dead
people it's just not the date yet
you're looking at a dead
man I'm dead I'm in the ground it's just
not the right
date we all die we all suffer and none
knows when or how thank the Lord
amen unless the doctor says you got 15
minutes I mean you just yeah you don't
know and it's our curse that's passed on
us through father Adam the SE need of
knowing good and evil which means wives
and husbands and children are good and
wiv and husbands and Children Are
Evil Jesus was born of a woman and not a
man did not have this evil seed he's
perfect and holy but the implication is
the reason for Jesus the curse is the
reason Jesus had to come the curse is
the reason for the cross
and Galatians 3 and: 13 he became a
curse for us so that we might be cured
of our curse that's Genesis 3:15 when he
first speaks to the woman and he says
through your seed we'll be able to
bruise Satan's head that's it crush his
head so this is the lesson today I don't
you look at what your family is about
maybe you haven't thought about it this
is it the family is God designed it
number one there's a
God's creation design for the family
that speaks to what we ought to do
family like there's God's Proclamation
design that speaks to the church and
what Christ and the church is supposed
to be like and there's God's implication
design that speaks to why we need to be
saved why we need the cross why we need
to come to him yes this all teaches us
and gives us a pattern to follow and our
individual families but the proclamation
opens the door to the idea of a greater
family what if my family does not
survive I mean I'm grateful that mine
survived this far
but I got no
guarantees Wheels could come off the
cart
right
right sickness
death or
divorce hope no
murder well there is that mysterious
family what if the wheels come off the
cart there is that mysterious family
even if that occurs the Church of Jesus
Christ is our
family even if all is not
well all can be forgiven I don't care
what's going on in your family right now
everything can be forgiven it can be
forgiven and you can make it
work and you can have a good
home I saw a family I was raised with
change it can
happen but even if your home never never
never works
out have a forever family
forever
F Keith
Miller Christian book author tells the
story of an pretty outgoing 40-year-old
woman who was in a small group and she
wants to tell her story can I read you
her story it's not that
long she said
this when I was a tiny
girl my parents died
and I was put in an
orphanage I was not pretty at
all and no one seemed to want
me but I longed to be adopted and loved
by family as far back as I can
remember I thought about it day and
night but everything I did seemed to go
wrong I must have tried too hard to
please the people who came to look me
over what I would what I did was to
drive them
away but then one day the head of the
orphanage told me that a family was
coming to take me home with them I was
so excited that I jumped up and down and
cried like a little baby the matron
reminded me that I was on trial and this
might not be a permanent
Arrangement but I just knew that somehow
it would work out so I went with this
family started to
school I was the happiest little girl
you can imagine and life began to open
up for me just a little but then one day
a few months later I skipped home from
school and ran in the front door of the
big old house we lived in and no one was
at home
but in the middle of the front hall was
my battered
suitcase with my little coat thrown
across it and as I stood there it
suddenly dawned on me what it
meant I didn't belong there
anymore when she stopped speaking it's
hardly a drye in the
room but then she cleared her voice
he matter of fact he said
this
this happened to me seven
times before I was 13 years
old but
wait don't feel too
badly it was experiences like these that
ultimately brought me to God and there I
found found what I had always longed for
a place a sense of
belonging a forever
family know the pattern of the creation
and the reason for the proclamation and
the imprecation that we all live
under and I hope your family can
work but if not reminds me of Daniel
chapter 3 M and
abedo but if
not I hope it
works I hope you have a happy family and
you live together 80
years but if
not we have a forever family available
to
us
amen you can be a part of it if you're
willing to give your life to Jesus you
can repent of your sins confess the name
of Christ and be baptized today for the
remission of your sins become a part of
the forever family the one family you
won't get kicked out of
