now most of you are not historians most
of you don't know much about the history
of the Church of Christ probably so I'm
going to mention a name I'd say 99% of
you will never have heard his name but I
have I promise you Leroy Garrett now
lero Garrett passed away in
2015 uh he was a publisher he was an
author he is a lecturer he was a
controversial
influencer among the restoration groups
such as the Church of Christ he was
considered by many to be a heretic to be
one that you shouldn't listen to ignore
him but he was also respected highly
about how he was an authority on the
restoration movement history so whether
or not you liked him or not his books on
Restoration History were spoton and a
number one even though he believed
things that some of us would be
uncomfortable
believing he wrote a book called The
Stone Campbell movement of which
theoretically we're a part
of he talks about how that in it's
interesting there's two Christmases
mentioned and one I'm fixed to tell you
about I think that's interesting within
and of itself December the 25th
1784 1784 I probably got my history
wrong but I believe that was the year we
ratified the
Constitution you know some of you
historians fix me later
by December 25th 1784 John
Wesley from England sent a letter to the
American Methodist so I'm not talking
about Church of Christ American
Methodist churches giving them their
independence he had been the boss of the
church giving them their independence
from the England Church the uh English
Methodist Church with it he appointed
Francis Ashbury you don't know him
either that's fine he is the head
therefore of the American Methodist
Church but he was a most difficult
person anybody that knew him knew is
difficult similar things said about me
before with harsh methods he was the
kind of guy it was his way or no
way anyway Garrett writes about this and
what happened Garrett Leroy Garrett
wrote the Republican Methodist Church
you ever heard of that before y'all
Republican methodists or Democrat method
and is't that interesting that was their
name the Republican Methodist Church now
they meant it as Freedom a church for
all people that's what the word
Republican meant to them they say anyway
the Republican Methodist Church began on
Christmas Day 1793 not 1784 several
years later 1793 in Manakin uh Town
Virginia it was formed by several
Methodist congregations who rebelled
against the Methodist Episcopal form of
government brought from England the
reason because that Asbury guy was such
a pill soon there were several thousand
members and whole congregations had
joined them representatives of the group
met in August of
1794 in sui County Virginia some of you
know Virginia to make decisions as to
how they would be governed and what they
would be called so they had not actually
arrived at a name now that they're kind
of
new and so it says since they had left
the Methodist Church they no longer
wanted to be known as Methodist and they
could hardly go around calling one
another
Republicans good choice at a point in
the meeting a preacher named rice
Haggard stood up with the New Testament
in his hand and says quote Brothers this
is a sufficient rule of faith and
practice and by it we are told that the
disciples were called Christians and I
move that henceforth and forever the
followers of Christ be known as
Christians simply the motion was carried
and from that time on they were simply
called Christians their church was as a
result called the Christian Church
probably didn't know that about the
Christian
church as you see though listening to
all of that
rigar getting together to discuss and
agree on everything is almost impossible
to be United is a problem you can have
General doctrines and general attitudes
General respect all that's possible but
when you start getting specific it gets
more and more difficult the distinctive
plea of the Churches of Christ is and
I'm not talking about the Church of
Christ here talking about the Churches
of Christ worldwide let us be United and
how are we to be United by the church
today we want to look at that now we
talked a little about this I don't want
to get into it de deeply but Jesus
prayed for Unity I've got scriptures for
that again if you didn't see that and
Paul preached Unity we've got scripture
for that and as a Fallen World system
and this is really important because
some of you think Unity is really
possible it will never be possible where
all the people who believe in God
absolutely are totally United no more
than it will ever be possible that we
will all agree on everything politically
no more than we will ever be totally
agreement with what our favorite food is
it's just not going to happen we're not
going to go there so there are good
reasons for linguistic division which we
go back to Genesis chap 11 there are
good reasons for doctrinal divisions we
get into that in detail we may talk a
little bit about that today and there's
reformational division that had a good
reason to get away from the Spanish
Inquisition and and the 300,000 people
were damaged by that and there's good
reason to get away from ethnical
divisions where basically everybody in
One ethnic hangs together and everybody
in a different ethnic hangs together all
that just creates hate and bigotry
around the
world we need to understand that in a
fallen World division is
needed because if we all unite we may be
subjected to because of our fallen
leaders a tyrannical utopian Unity that
you think sounds wonderful on the front
end and ends up absolutely oppressive of
all your desires now we serve a great
God this is really important that you
understand that we serve a great God and
a great God has great Ambitions he has
great goals for the church not mediocre
goals but big stuff listen to some
things he wants to do numbers 14:21
truly as I live that's God saying as
surely as I exist all the Earth shall be
filled with the glory of the Lord now
that hasn't happened yet not in the
fullest sense of the meaning of what
he's saying here but it will it will
happen and I've given you a number of
scripture you can look up if you don't
believe that the purpose of church Unity
is global
belief the reason we need to try to
behave like we're United with people we
don't agree with is because of global
Belief John 17:21 says that they may be
one in us that the world may believe
that you sent me the nastier we are to
each other when we disagree the less
likely anybody's going to believe what
we're
pushing the purpose of church Unity is
not just Global belief because that's
going to happen the entire world is
going to come to believe that Jesus
Christ is risen Lord and are going to
kneel I promise you that's happening but
more than that the purpose of church
Unity is global growth God doesn't want
just to have uh two billion people who
believe in God out of 8 billion he wants
8 billion out of 8 billion that's what
he wants in Ephesians 4: 11-16 it says
this till we all come till we all so
that sounds like it's going to happen
right till we all come to the unity of
the faith no longer tossed to and fro
and carried about with every wind of
Doctrine but speaking the truth in love
may grow up in all things the whole body
working by which every part does it
share causes the growth of the body
that's the goal this big God has for us
and the purpose of church Unity is also
not just Global belief and global Global
growth but Global unification listen to
Ephesians chapter 3 beginning in verse 6
that the Gentiles and the word Gentiles
there doesn't refer to people
genetically it means literally the
Nations that's everybody but the Jewish
Nation it means all the nations of the
world when the Bible uses that it means
the Nations not just Mongrel people like
us and it says in verse 6 that the
Gentiles should be fellow Heirs of the
same
body he wants all the Gentiles all the
nations to be fellow Heirs of the same
body that the Jews are supposed to be
fellows of verse 10 says to the extent
that now the manifold wisdom of God
might be made known by the church to the
principalities powers of the Heavenly
places that's our duty so as the church
as the Ecclesia as the called out
Assembly of God from this world we need
to Endeavor to keep the unity of the
spirit and the bond of peace and we need
to be on the right side of his
purposes which means be
nice okay so want to look at eight
respectful ways to agree to let us be
United by the church okay can we do that
it's going to be pretty quick number one
let us be United by the church as it is
the one Church of the Lord look Matthew
16:18 and I also said to you that you
are Peter and on this rock I that's one
person I will build my that's one church
and the gates of Hades shall not Prevail
against it that's good news on the
second part of that I'd love to preach
on that right now but I got to move on
so one church is the
plan number
two let us be United by the church as it
is the one flock of the Lord there was a
goal to make one flock so you are all
sheep of his pasture not flocks over
here flocks over here flocks over here
flocks over here they don't get along
with each other no no no that wasn't his
plan in John 10:1 16 and other sheep I
have which are not of this fold them
also I must bring and they will hear my
voice and there will be not maybe there
will be one flock and one Shepherd that
sounds pretty serious to me pay
attention to it the next time you're
easily critical of someone you kind of
disagree with on that because it might
be getting in the way of what we're
really trying to do here let's be United
by the church as it is the one Temple of
the Lord the one Temple of the Lord
listen to 1 Corinthians 3: 16 do you not
know that you are the not a you are the
temple of God that means everybody he
speaking to you are the temple of God
and that the spirit singular of God
dwells in you he wouldn't dwell in
multiple temples he dwells in one so
let's be United by the church because
there was ever only meant to be one
temple of God that we would all Worship
in number
next let's be United by the church as it
is the one bread head of the Lord that's
what it says you can say you don't
understand this that's fine stick with
me just a minute maybe you will 1
Corinthians chapter 10: 16 and 17 says
this the cup of blessing which we bless
is it not the communion of the blood of
Christ when we were taking our cup
earlier we were communing United
participating in the blood of Christ
that's literal spiritually we're United
uh that's absolutely true that it's
literal and it's spiritual at the same
time but it goes on to say the bread we
ate the bread first right the bread the
bread singular it doesn't mean that you
can't have little things like that
that's silly just like the cup doesn't
mean you have to have one little cup it
means the what's the contents of it and
that's it
contents is the fruit of the vine
contents is unleavened bread the bread
which we break is it not by the way the
word break doesn't mean it has to break
although you can't chew it without
breaking it it means simply that we are
dividing in amongst each other the bread
which we break is it not the communion
or the participation of the body of
Christ there's only one body in the Lord
we'll get to that in a moment but then
it says for we though many are one
bread did you know that we're the one
bread do you know that we're the one
bread listen to it that we though many
are one bread and one body for we are
all partakers of the one bread we become
a part of his body literally because we
are that one
bread we are that one bread we're not
just eating the one bread we are because
we become what we eat we are the one
bread that's what it says number
next let's be United by the church as it
is the one bride of the Lord it used to
be common apparently
I I wouldn't advise it but it used to be
common you can have two or three wives
way back I guess that was so they could
do all the kitchen work
but I don't know how you got away with
that by the way brother
so didn't
have but one bride I'm going tell you
something I if you could have three
wives I wouldn't have three if you could
have four I wouldn't have four if you
got five wouldn't have five how many
would you have I'm scared about having
the one trying take care of that one
okay that's the truth that's just
because quite honestly it's what God
ultimately wanted you to see and be a
part of Ephesians chap 5: 31-32 it says
for this reason a man shall leave his
father and mother this is very beginning
there's only one man one woman created
that was the original plan it was what
God wanted for us all for this reason a
man shall leave his father and mother be
joined to his wife and the two shall
become one flesh
this is a great
mystery but Adam and Eve is not just a
story about Adam and Eve this is a great
mystery but I speak concerning Christ
and the church Eve was an image of the
bride of Christ Eve is us we are Eve we
are the bride of Christ and there can
only be one and that should be our
attitude you don't want two women in the
house you don't want them number next
let's be United by the
church as it is the one Kingdom of the
Lord what you won't ever see is Jesus
talking about
kingdoms never discusses
kingdoms he only discusses the kingdom
Colossians 1: 13 He has delivered us
from this is after Christ has come he
has delivered us from the power of
darkness and conveyed us into the
Kingdom of the son of his love we are if
you're child of God today you are in the
Kingdom not because the kingdom has
arrived in its fullest sense here no but
we've been conveyed into it we've been
transliterated into we've been basically
put there spiritually we aren't
physically in the absolute rule of the
Kingdom yet that day will come but it
has not come yet then number
next let us be United by by the church
is it is the one body back to we talked
about a moment ago he read it earlier
Colossians 1:18 and he is the head of
the body singular the church who is the
beginning in the firstborn from the dead
that in all things you might have the
preeminence if you doubt if there's one
body Ephesians 4:4 makes it very clear
there's one body it says the bodies that
means one if there is only one body that
we can be a part of we should act like
we're a part of of one body that should
be our
attitude that should be the way we try
to speak of each
other because we want to win the world
and if you start acting like we're the
only one that cares you just come across
as arrogant you need to be respectful of
people I know that's not going down real
well in the church I've heard the other
all my life I'm just telling you we may
need to change your attitude number next
let's be United by the church as it is
the one
house of the
Lord I know you your fathers wondered
why preached on this some day well it is
because it's Father's Day it's because
this is what I was planning to preach
however I'm going to get you in the
corner here 1 Timothy chapter 3 and
verse1 15 it says but if I am delayed I
will write so that you may know how you
ought to conduct yourself in the house
of God in the house of God like this is
the house of God no that's not the house
of God this is the house of God how do
you conduct yourself in the house of God
the household of God which is the Church
of the Living God the pillar and the
ground of the truth what we are to do is
support this thing here that's what this
is for this house is to support
that
now there's a special significance of
this idea on Father's Day
you may not have picked up on it yet but
hang on Ephesians 3: 14- 15 it says this
I bow my knees to the father there's
only one right there's only one father
of us all right one there's not two up
there or three or one for every Church
on the planet there's one right the
father I bow my knees to the father of
our Lord Jesus Christ from whom the
whole family in Heaven and Earth is
named now now that would include angels
and they're not at all like us and they
haven't lived a life at all like us so
you can be United like that with people
that you know nothing about yeah you can
it's a Unity that's different from but
we're divided they're up there we're
down there but you can't be United with
them and then it says from whom the
whole family in Heaven and Earth is
named we're all named after the father
he's the one with an original name the
rest of us get our name through that
now here's the point I want you get
fathers Mark
3:25 if a house is divided against
itself that house cannot
stand I believe with all my heart that
fam Stay Together number one reason they
stay together you
gentlemen not you
wives I'm not trying to do issue in any
way I think it is the responsibility of
the man to make that home stay together
it's on us
gentlemen I think we we have an immense
responsibility to keep our wife and our
children with us as long as possible to
try to create a an environment of peace
and safety to protect them to provide
for them whatever the cost
whatever the cost I believe that's on us
because I believe that's exactly what
the father's claiming for himself he
intends to reach out to them all he
wants all of his kids families do
sometimes what churches
do you start disrespecting another
family
start disrespecting another
family and then they start disrespecting
their
own now if you've been talking bad about
your wife gentlemen or your
children or wives if you've been talking
bad about your
husband or children if you've been
talking bad about about your mom and
daddy everybody go home and wash your
mouth out with
soap
repent A house divided against itself
will not
stand and I believe that's on us our
fathers
are at their very
best when they are able keep their
family together and die like
that I don't I think any of you who
stayed with your wives this long and
with your kids this long and y'all still
can talk to each other in the same room
even though you don't like everything
about each other cuz that's real right
I'm being real there if you can be in
the same room with each other at
Thanksgiving or at Christmas and you can
still get along for a few hours right
listen to me now if you can still do
that and your kids are grown you have
won you have won that was your
goal cuz that's the hardest thing in the
world to
do so there it is Let's Be United by the
church what do I mean by that there's
only one Church in the Bible there's
only one flock there's only one Temple
there's only one bread there's only one
bride there's only one Kingdom there's
only one body there's only one house
what are we talking about when we start
talking about all this division it is
more I I got to say this it's much
easier to separate and exclude than it
is to look past differences and try to
be gracious I'm not saying you got to
agree with anybody who disagrees with us
that's not uh-uh no not saying that but
you got to
try to be
respectful in Luke 9: 49- 50 it says
John said Master we saw someone casting
out demons in your name and we forbade
him because he does not follow with uses
he needed to be told off but Jesus said
to him do not forbid him for he who is
not against us is on our side don't
assume you know what's going
on so be careful what you say about
those who differ with us ask yourself is
what I'm fixing to say true is it
helpful is it inspiring is it necessary
is it kind is it gracious is it loving
is it something that will unite us or
divide us learning to speak respectfully
of those we disagree with is what you're
supposed to learn in a home because
there's never been a household where
there was a man and a woman where he
didn't ever disagree there's never been
a household where he had children boys
and girls that you didn't disagree but
you got to learn to be respectful amen
be respectful The Same Spirit affects
our speech it affects us how we speak to
each other who believe in the same Bible
who believe in the same Jesus who
believe in the same church idea and who
want to worship the same
God there's an old story I'm fix the end
so you can get over feeling sorry for me
about my throat
uh there's a yish folklore story that
goes like
this there's a guy that was a bad
gossip and he decided he W he didn't
like the rabbi youall know what a rabbi
is
right Jewish preacher so he didn't like
the
rabbi so he started running him down he
went all over town told lies about him
told everything cuz he just didn't like
it and he assumed things you know when
you decide somebody's bad you start
assuming stuff have you noticed that you
assume stuff that you don't know but you
start assuming it I know what they're
thinking I know what they're about well
he did that and he was wrong and he
started saying and all kinds of things
all over town and this went on for
years finally he had done it so
much that he convicted
himself and he felt guilty and
remorseful he's crying and he's praying
about it he thought what can I do about
this I've said so many bad things about
a
rabbi so he went to see the rabbi he
said can you ever forgive me for what
I've done I've been doing this for years
saying bad things about you what can I
do to make it right can you forgive me
he said oh yeah I can forgive you if
you'll do one thing for me said sure
said I want you to go take two pillows
and go down to the middle of town I'm
going take your knife rip those pillows
apart rip them up up put them up over
your head and shake them like crazy then
come back and see me so you goes he says
sure so he goes downtown with two
pillows rips it open feathers go
everywhere shakes it like crazy goes
back to see the
rabbi and he
says are you forgiven me he said yeah he
said but now I want you to go back and
pick up all those
feathers find every one of them and
maybe then you'll begin to realize how
you can't undo some of the damage you
did be careful what you say Amen be
careful what you say if we're going to
have Unity it starts in the home be
careful what you say we're going to have
Unity it's in the house of God be
careful what you say if we're going to
have Unity it's churchwide be careful
what you say if we're going to ever have
Unity it's religion wide be careful what
you say if we're going to have Unity
it's worldwide and God has that view
be careful what you say if you need to
come be a part of a United Church love
see come maybe you'd be one of those
baptized Believers too why we stand
while we sing
