in response to the Great Commission I
have to tell you that U there are three
types of evangelizers evangelizing
Believers people who are willing to go
out and win souls there's three types of
evangelizing Believers those who can
count and those who cannot
count because I really believe that one
of the problems we have as we cannot
count that may sound
strange you may remember a
story about a fellow named
Abraham who could not count the
Stars you know we still
can't we don't know how many there
are and we cannot count the
angels and quite honestly you cannot
count the
brethren we try every week
here you cannot count the
brethren we don't know what we're
talking about most the time especially
when it comes to numbers that'll be a
little more helpful at the end of this
lesson than it is right now but just
hang on to that little thought put it in
the back while we go on with the lesson
every believer in Jesus has always
believed in the Great Commission the
deday from somewhere between 80 and 160
ad says as concerning
baptism the thus baptize having first
said all these things baptize in the
name of the father of the Son and the
Holy Spirit in flowing water but if you
do not have flowing water baptize in
other water and if you cannot in cold in
warm well we baptize in cold water
here
ireneus said in about 180
5 and again giving to the disciples the
power of regeneration into God he said
to them go and disciple All Nations
baptizing them in the name of the father
and of the Son and the Holy Ghost Martin
Luther living until about 1546 who you
could call him a Lutheran but he
probably wasn't even that said it is the
duty of every Christian to be Christ
to his neighbor
neighbor David Livingston who died in
1873 who was a congregationalist at the
end of his life he said if a commission
by an Earthly King is considered an
honor how can a commission by a Heavenly
King be considered a
sacrifice Adrian Rogers I was kind of a
big fan of Adrian Adrian passed away in
2005 he's a Baptist he said once you
become a Believer the Great Commission
becomes your
mission I think that's true and I think
everything I just read by these others
is true the only point of reading it is
that everybody who claims to be a
Christian has believed in the concept of
the Great
Commission the distinctive play of uh
the Churches of Christ is let us be
United but today we're on United
literally by the commission itself Jesus
prayed for Unity John 17 and Paul
preached for Unity we read it a moment
ago in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and again
we live in a fallen World which means
division is actually our
friend ain't that a strange concept
because we live in a fallen World
division is our friend we don't need to
be United with everybody about
everything because we live in a fallen
world and much that we would be United
with would not be fit to be United with
so division right now will one day be an
enemy but right now it's in a weird kind
of way our friend we discover that in
Genesis 11 and the linguistic change
doctrinal changes that have happen
reformational changes even ethnic
changes but if we are to follow our
commission we need
teachers we need gifted teachers
that's
you not some of
you that's
you the commission isn't to some of us
to
teach it's to every last one of us to
teach gifted teachers have
positions in Ephesians 4:1 and he
himself gave some to be Apostles some
prophets some evangelists some pastors
and teachers
now you say well you mean in our Bible
class system oh yeah you ought to
volunteer for that who should do that
every last one of
us every last one of us should volunteer
but we won't and that won't happen
because we're stubborn and we think we
can't do things but we can and everybody
sitting here could teach you just
won't the question is is Will You Hear
The Gospel commission to teach your
neighbor there's the real question you
already have that position nobody
appointed you to that on Earth Jesus
appointed you to that position in the
Great Commission gifted teachers also
have a progression there's something
that progresses if you recognize what
our duty is verse 12 it says for the
equipping of the Saints for the work of
Ministry for the edifying of the body of
Christ so it isn't just to evangelize
but it's also to keep each other
going equipping each other well how do I
teach that sometimes you just have one
verse in your
pocket and when your brother comes up to
you and share that one verse
amen sometimes one verse will get me
through amen or even a part of a verse
will get me through that day and I need
you to help me do that and I need to do
that for you amen just one verse
sometimes but we all need to be
progressing helping each other maintain
the Great commission and the gifted
teacher helps reduce us to
Perfection Ephesians 4: 13 says till we
all come to the unity of the faith and
the knowledge of the Son of God to a
perfect man he's talking about the whole
church becoming this perfect man to the
measure of the stature of the fullness
of Christ as if the whole church stood
up up on Earth and it was to the measure
of the stature of the fullness of Christ
that Perfection is your duty it's my
duty but it's your duty everybody here
it's your
duty that's right you've been
commissioned already the Great
Commission wasn't to a few of us it was
to all of us now we all need not
everyone just to become teachers but we
need every single one of us to become
even more gifted at teaching the gospel
of Christ you say I'm not very good at
it I've never talked to anybody about it
that's exactly what I'm talking about we
all need to get better at this not good
but goodest okay at
this Elders must be able to teach listen
to me Elders you don't get off the hook
by class calling your name every one of
you you hear
me I'm being kind of pointed here a
Bible class is calling your name 1
Timothy 3:2 it says you're to be able to
teach Elders not only must be able to
teach but Titus 1 ver9 says able both to
exhort and convict with sound
Doctrine that's that's a talent but it's
also a knowledge and Faithful Men those
of you who consider yourself faithful in
the church Faithful Men Must 2 Timothy
2:2 be able to teach that's right every
last man I'm talking to right now should
be able to teach a Bible class right now
walk into a Bible class pick up your
Bible open it up somewhere and start
teaching it amen amen walls amen walls
nobody else is Amen in Harley there's
about three people in here amen servants
must must be according to 2 Timothy 2
and: 24 able to teach everybody that
serves other people that's employees
it's whoever serves other people or if
you serve the church or whoever you
serve or if you have a husband you
obviously a servant because he certainly
wants that glass of water every now and
then expects you to bring it to him
which is ridiculous but that your
servant second Timothy 2 and verse 24
able to teach that's your position who
needs to be able to teach every last one
of us workers must be able to teach if
you're a worker in the kingdom of God
you're supposed to be able to teach
because it says in second Timothy 2
verse1 15 you should be able to rightly
divide or handle a right the word of
truth if you're not able to handle a
right the word of Truth you've not
fulfilled your duty
yet you need to do that bonder servants
must be able to according to Titus 2
vers saying Adorn the doctrine of God
what does that mean you ever adorned a
Christmas tree what do you do you try to
make it look prettier you ever adorned
your house you ever adorned your yard
you ever tried to make yourself did you
get up this morning and look and see you
know I think my teeth need brushing I
mean have you ever combed your hair you
Adorn so you take the Bible and you
teach it and you make it as beautiful as
you approach it as you possibly can
adoring the doctrine of God who needs to
do that every last one of us why because
the Great Commission is not to your
preacher alone it is to every last
person that is receiving the gospel men
women children it makes no difference
children yes children who dare to come
to church should learn to talk about
Jesus with their friends long before
they're
baptized so the commission that we are
all till B was recorded three times and
we're going to review those really
quickly and we'll get down to brast taxs
about what we're supposed to teach when
that happens number one let us be United
by the commission to go preach
discipleship and baptism to all the
nations listen I don't be ashamed talk
about discipleship discipleship is
apprenticeship apprenticeship is a true
following of the Lord Jesus in every
single possible way we can we are to be
reproducible I'll read the passage again
that chz read a minute ago it says
Matthew 28:18 and Jesus came and spoke
to them saying all authority has been
given to me in heaven and on Earth so he
has the right to say the next statement
verse 19 go therefore and Make Disciples
of all the nations baptizing them in the
name of the father Son and the Holy
Spirit and teaching them to observe all
things things I've commanded you now
somebody says well this was to the
disciples well he this last little
statement right there means it's to us
because if they were to teach all that
he commanded them then he was also to
teach them to do this thing he just were
commanded so observe all things I've
commanded you and LA with you always
even in the end of the age so it's a
reproducible commission so was to them
specifically at first but it rolls on to
us yes so it's reproducible but what are
we to teach discipleship apprenticeship
to Jesus not just I believe in Jesus
moment not just I'm baptized moment but
A discipleship moment A discipleship
moment which is an apprenticeship where
you learn every day the rest of your
life how Jesus lived and you try to
duplicate it and that's on you and you
can't quit it and there is no stopping
place and there's no reduction act in it
by the way this is it number
two let us be United by the commission
to go preach belief and baptism to all
the world what are we to teach believe
belief in what Bel in the gospel belief
in Jesus Christ what is the gospel it's
the death burial and Resurrection Jesus
Christ we're to teach belief in that in
Jesus and baptism I thought we just read
that that's right have you notice that
this is the duplicate of the passage
right so Mark Chap 16:15 and 16 says and
he's said to them go into all the world
and preach the gospel the good news to
Every Creature he who believes and is
baptized will be saved that's a plus b
equals
c you to teach belief in baptism person
who believes and is baptized is saved
that's it believe baptize say believe
baptize say that's pretty simple isn't
it pretty simple stuffff so discipleship
that is following Jesus the rest of your
life baptism that was the first thing we
learned the second thing we learned this
is the parallel is you believe in Jesus
right and you're baptized and you're
saved that's what he says and to be used
but he who does not believe will be
condemned that makes sense doesn't it
last time it comes up this is the third
it's not there's nothing like this in
the Book of John that's parallel exactly
to this but here it is let us be United
by the commission to go preach
repentance and remission to all the
nations hm that's different isn't it
didn't say discipleship and baptism it
didn't say belief in baptism it said
repentance and remission if you believe
it listen you said I where does it say
that Luke chapter 24 here where it says
it then he said to them thus it is
written and thus it was necessary for
the Christ to suffer and rise from the
dead the third day well that's that's
what we must believe right verse 47 and
that
repentance where was that at and
remission of sins should be preached in
his name to All Nations beginning in
Jerusalem where did this repentance
thing come from well if you want really
know the New Testament then you know
that John preached a baptism of
repentance and then in Acts 2 and: 38
when they said what shall we do he told
them to repent and be baptized exactly
so you can't separate baptism from
repentance in fact if you're baptizing
you don't repent you haven't been
baptized that's the reason babies have
never been baptized because they have no
sense of repentance if they had a sense
of repentance they'd be saying get me
out of this
water and be saying I don't like this
that'd be the only thing to be repenting
of wish you hadn't done this to
me but repentance is a change of heart
and so repentance and remission and
remission where's the remission it's
remission it's when you're baptized
that's interesting parallels in it
discipleship baptism you pick up the
parallels look at these parallels
discipleship baptism
belief baptism repentance and remission
of sins those are all parallels it may
not look like a parallel but they're all
parallels because this is the Great
Commission and we
all if we all let me put it differently
if we all believe all of that let us all
be United to all of the Great Commission
we just read right that's what we're to
be United to so sometimes we believe
though and this is the part remember
what I talked about at the beginning
that we can't count
this is the sad
part this is the sad part we can't
count and so as a result of that because
we can't
count we get
discouraged and we think we're
failing we count we think the number of
baptisms we count the number of people
at church and we think we've evaluated
success and failure
you notice that we think with a
number we've evaluated success and
failure and we have no idea what we're
doing we think we
do and because the numbers don't add up
the way we think they should add up if
you were really a
success we begin to believe for certain
we're
failing because we we don't see the
results that we think we're supposed to
see okay I'm going to tell you a story
met a guy this is about 30 something
years ago in the
1990s and he was speaking his name was
Manuel
do you might know him I don't know
Manuel Manuel deliva came from Portugal
it was his goal originally to study and
then to preach in portug he's Portuguese
and he spoke fluid
Portuguese
um let me give you background on the
history of Africa for just a moment then
you'll begin to understand why I'm
telling you the story uh there was a
great effort by the USSR y'all remember
who the USSR is United Soviet Socialist
Republic
USSR to take over the
world that wasn't a maybe it was their
goal turn the whole world into a
communist
system Africa faced that
enormously and most of you here didn't
know what was going on most of America
did not know about the Angola war and
how Fierce that war was and how it went
on for 20 years and it was never in your
news but that's not what I'm talking
talking about I'm talking about mosm
Beek mosm Beque a large country a very
large country in af there's 55 countries
in Africa mosm a large country in Africa
they didn't just attempt to take mosm
Beek they took it mosam be went
communist it was controlled by the USSR
I promise you now because of that now
the the people in mosm mosek had been
settled by the Portuguese okay okay they
ran it and they left and as a result of
that the churches that had been
established in mosm most of America gave
up on because first they were falling
underneath uh unbelief because as you
know communism is against any belief in
God you believe in the system you
believe in the country you believe in
the leaders but you don't believe in God
God doesn't exist that's communism if
you really know the truth and so they
believe that the churches couldn't
survive under that right so everybody
leaving all the missionaries left and
there were little bitty con congregation
all that we knew about in mosm were
little bitty congregations of 20 to 40
maybe 60 along the coast in several
cities along the coast because none of
the missionaries had ever really
adventured Inland so they hadn't gone in
because it was Jungle Inland okay it was
not a place you wanted to
go okay so here's what happened when
they all left we thought well even those
churches will be gone soon right they
didn't have support no money flowing in
you know how we have to keep all these
churches all over the world paid by
American dollars I don't know if you
know that but most of us think we have
to do that right we have to pay for all
the churches out there and preachers all
the preachers have to be paid by
Americans and if you don't know that you
don't really know what's going on in
Mission work it's one of the reason we
don't have more missionaries than we do
out there so that was what was going on
and we thought oh well the money went
away and couldn't do the you couldn't
even send money in
anymore so everybody
believed church is gone Manuel deliva
went in to
see saw him right after he got
back heard him preach it Bon Church of
Christ right after he got back and told
what he had
found he said it was true those churches
along the coast were still
there but you know how we can't count
and he thought maybe just maybe there
might be some Christians Inland in the
jungles but he couldn't get anybody take
him in there everybody was scared to
death to go Inland oh there's there's
Savage up in there they'll kill you you
can't go Inland and you don't know
what's up in there and there were hardly
any roads that went Inland just couldn't
get in there finally got somebody take
him
Inland but then that guy wanted to
leave but he got further Inland and he
finally found some
people he found
Brethren wasn't sure if they were
Brethren at first but they claimed to be
members of the Church of
Christ then he found that they had built
a building that would hold 600
people and it just so happened that when
he was there they were having a
lectureship without any us support in
Portuguese back in the jungles a
building carved out of the jungles that
could hold 600
people they asked him to preach he
preached on the love of
God and said that was a good
lesson he pre they asked him to preach
again he preached
on uh kindness to
all that was a good lesson third time he
preached believe repent confess and
baptized they said oh good we didn't
think you were a Christian for a
while we didn't know what you
believed over 10,000 members of the
Church of Christ are back in the
jungles we can't count you see we saw
fail and all it was was success they
don't need us God's at work God will get
this done we need to be a part of it
there's a different
thing it doesn't need me to get it done
I need to get it done you understand the
difference that's where we need to be
and instead of figuring out that we if
we don't count the number of heads then
they're not a head if I say he's not a
member of the church he's not a member
of the church oh no no no no no you
don't get to call that one God calls the
ball God decides the number God say says
you can't count them right there was an
American Medical missionary that went to
the Congo named William Leslie back in
1906 to 1926 there was a really rough
area across the river that was just pure
jungle and he would make a attempt one
month out of the year to go over there
and try to talk to somebody nobody
received him nobody wanted to hear him
he talked to the children he tried to
teach them how to read nobody all he had
was this French Bible and that's it
that's that's all he had and he would go
in there and try to teach them nobody
listened nobody was baptized nobody ever
converted he left after 20 years of what
he thought was absolute failure he went
home and died believing he was a fail 86
years passed before anybody went back
into that area and when they got back in
that area there was churches in every
single Village and all they had was a
free French Bible and they shared it
between every single one of those
villages we can't count but God can he
knows exactly how many stars there are
in that Sky he knows exactly how many
Believers there are on the planet he
knows exactly where we're going we are
not in control of this this Great
Commission is his work not yours you
need to get on board you need to quit
saying oh I can't teach you need to get
on board for your sake not for his not
for the kingdom the kingdom will get
there God is in control he's going
somewhere are you going to be on the
train are you going to be on the train
and the question is now would you like
to unite with that I wouldn't want to
miss that how about coming to the end of
the world we're at the end of the world
and I never contribut a single penny to
that effort I never taught one single
soul how would I like to reach that and
done that no I want to be on board I
want to have help in the place to begin
is to receive the Gospel you got to
choose to be a disciple you got to
choose to be baptized you need to choose
to believe and to be baptized if you do
that you can receive if you will a
change of heart you can change your
heart that's called repentance and guess
what God gives out remission of sins
that's invitation to us all and then the
world awaits you to do your part
