we've been on this distinctive plea of
the Churches of Christ which is a
broader meaning of Churches of Christ
than just us but all religious people
who believe in Christ and let us be
United and today we're on let us be
United by the spirit it is a Fallen
World system and division is both a
friend and an
enemy division is a friend that prevents
tyranny it is an enemy that prevents
Brotherhood and being united in our
world because we are in a fallen World
takes the divine intervention a Divine
work a Divine work of God we have to
listen to the Divine Jesus praying for
Unity and Paul pleading for Unity as we
just read a moment
ago God's
temple in the Old
Testament is the image of his temple in
the new
so while we do not have the temple and
the Tabernacle of the Old Testament the
Old Testament is the image of our body
which is to be the temple in the new
God's spirit presence was in his Temple
literally in the Old Testament Exodus 40
says then the cloud covered the
Tabernacle of meeting and the glory of
the Lord filled the T Tabernacle and
Moses was not able to enter the
Tabernacle of meeting because the cloud
rested above it and the glory of the
Lord filled the
Tabernacle and God's spirit of his
inspired word was also in the Old
Testament temple in Deuteronomy 31 it
says take this book of the law that
Moses had written and put it beside the
Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your God
and of course the Ark of the Covenant of
the Lord was in the holy of holies of
the temple or the Tabernacle the
Covenant of the Lord your God that it
may be there as a witness against you so
it was always
present so literally God's spirit
presence was in his Tabernacle his
Temple literally and his word presence
was in his Tabernacle and Temple
literally so God's spirit in ins spired
word and God's spirit presence is still
in his Temple today if we are his Temple
Ephesians 1 and verse 13 in him you also
trusted after you heard the word of
Truth The Gospel of your salvation so
you hear it it enters you so the word is
within us in whom also having believed
you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of
Promise so God's holy spirit literally
dwells within us and his word literally
dwells within us those are not imaginary
Concepts those are real and if you're a
child of God you are the temple you are
the Tabernacle of God God's spirit is
still in his Temple 1 Corinthians 3:16
And1 17 says do you not know that you
are the temple of God and that the
spirit of God dwells in you not you know
hovers around you or you have a thought
about him but he literally dwells lives
within you 17 says if anyone defiles the
temple of God now he's not talking about
your body in the sense of just you know
you harmed it because you broke your leg
he's talking about defiling the
spiritual temple of God if anyone
defiles the temple of God God will
destroy him for the temple of God is
Holy which Temple you
are God Spirit therefore is still in his
Temple just as it was in the Old
Testament except now more literally in
each individual God's spirit is still in
his Temple 1 Corinthians 6: 19 through
20 puts it this way or do you not know
that your body is the Temple of the Holy
Spirit who is in you whom you have from
God and you are not your own he's not
saying claiming this is an apostle that
that it's Unique to the apostles that
they had some miraculous ability he's
talking about every believer that Not
only was in the congregation but but
that would ever read this verse 20 for
you were bought at a price the blood of
Jesus therefore glorify God in your body
and in your spirit which are God's so
yes the holy spirit is important and he
dwells within
us and the truth is cross religious
lines and when I say this religious
lines of Fellowship people that we don't
even claim fellowship with that we might
struggle even to agree with about much
of
anything the spirit is seen as our only
hope you know all those people out there
and all those other churches you know
they have one of
these don't act like they
don't and don't like act like they don't
understand a lot of stuff you
understand um CH Spurgeon which I
consider to be a was a great preacher
but he was English particular Baptist
did you know there was an English
particular Baptist do you know that was
a different thing did you know there are
over 50 different kinds of
Baptists we got splits in our church but
I want to tell you something there's 50
different kinds of Baptists in the world
English particular Baptist he said
without the spirit of God we can do
nothing we are as
sailboats without the wind Ian bounds
who was a Methodist Episcopal he
recognized the same concept he said what
the church needs today is not more novel
methods oh Amen to that but men whom the
Holy Ghost can use Amen to that David
Platt who is an Evangelical Baptist said
and this is recent I am part of a system
that has created a whole host of means
and methods plans and strategies for
doing church that require little if any
power from God
oo Peter Schultz who was a Catholic
priest said this maybe some of you know
these words we are one in the spirit
we are one in the Lord we are one in the
spirit we are one in the Lord and we
pray that all Unity May one day be
restored and they'll know we are
Christians by our love by our love yes
they'll know we are Christians by our
love I notice when we sing that we
changed a little
bit our text gives three major beliefs
that at least let us if not help us be
United by the spirit so I want to focus
on those
quickly number one let us be United by
the fruit of the
spirit Galatians chapter 5 beginning in
verse 22 I encourage you to be in the
text you can read along with me verse 22
but the fruit of the spirit and most of
you know this love
joy peace patience kindness goodness
faithfulness gentleness and self-control
right you all know those against such
there is no law you can't find fault
with any of those Although our culture
does did you know our culture doesn't
like much of any of those believe it or
not our culture thinks that when you get
to Ooey Gooey lovey doy that you get
weak it's kind of strange
so the culture says weakness like that
will only split you got to be strong or
you'll split but we believe the spirit's
fruit its attitudes its love joy peace
patience kindness goodness faithfulness
gentl and self-control is what makes us
strong and it prevents splits and it
unites people and if you don't have
those attitudes those attitudes those
fruits of the spirit you cause trouble
our
division uh is brought on in my opinion
and I think this text verifies it by not
having those
attitudes a division officer in the
Navy who was a Naval
aviator on his way home from a mission
that he had flown over Afghanistan so it
wasn't that long ago on his way back to
the ship to land on an aircraft carrier
he got
vertigo that's right that's an inner ear
problem you ever had one if you just had
your sinuses mess up sometimes the room
twists right well this is worse than
that so he realized he was having this
problem obviously he was dizzy he was
confused it was one of the scariest
things he's ever experience because he's
in the middle of flying a fighter
jet he can be deadly landing on an
aircraft
carrier in the middle of the Persian
Gulf is fly he was flying what appeared
to him to be upright but every one of
his instruments were telling him he was
flying upside
down now in his mind when he felt it he
was right side up everything was
perfect everything was backward
according to the
instruments in his
mind they were Incorrect and he was
correct now he could follow what he
thought was
right and he could
depend on himself or he could depend on
his
instruments and overriding what he felt
was right he said was the hardest thing
in the world to do at that
moment and he
struggled but he's telling the story so
guess what
happened he overrode his feelings and he
went with the instruments and landed on
the aircraft
carrier sometimes your feelings if you
go with the world standards are going to
feel
right but let me tell you something
folks a holy spirit will change you
it'll turn turn your world upside down
and it won't be upside down anymore be
right side up because it's upside down
if you're fallowing the way the world
thinks let's believe that the fruit of
the spirit all of those attitudes are
not a sign of weakness but are the
strength that will bind us together and
unite us all and let's pray for that
type of unity number two let us be
United by the Walk of the spirit this
text goes on to say in verse 24 and
those who are Christ have crucified the
flesh with its passions and desires amen
praise the lord it's hard to do that but
that's what we're called to do verse 25
if we live in the spirit let us also
walk in the spirit it's one thing to
become a Christian it's another thing to
walk in the spirit been a many of people
ducked underwater that quitted a long
time ago or just did it in name only and
even today sitting in a church building
you know you're life isn't walk
according to the spirit you quit that at
some point if we live in the spirit let
us also walk in the spirit and let us
not become
conceited provoking one another envying
one another do you know what might cause
division provoking one another envying
one another becoming
conceited so culture says what's really
what we should be is selfish and
self-centered you need to take care of
number one
first that's the most important thing
you should do well at least that's what
the culture thinks but we believe the
spirit's walk is a walk of
selflessness that we don't matter but
the people around us
do a father and son arrived in a small
western town looking for an
uncle they had never seen him the family
had been divided and they were looking
for for an uncle suddenly the father
said pointing to a man across the square
who was walking away from him he said
there goes my uncle right
there now his son was with him and he
says how in the world do you know that
you've never seen him before and his
face is turned and he's walking the
other direction how could you possibly
know that is your
uncle he said son I know that's him
because he walks just like my daddy
walked you know if you walk in the
spirit then you see another brother
walking and you know what you know
they're walking in the spirit cuz they
walk just like our daddy
walks you can tell it so let's believe
that the Walk of the spirit a walk of
self
lessness
unites number
three let us be United by the work of
the spirit Galatians chapter 6 is a
continuation of this same idea he starts
in verse one Brethren if a man is
overtaken in a trespass You Are
Spiritual why the word spiritual because
he's talking about spirit being involved
in our life you who are spiritual
restore here's the work restore such a
one in a spirit of gentleness
considering yourself lest you be tempted
there's a work of the spirit the work of
the spirit in our life should be looking
after each other and when we see
somebody stumbling we should make every
effort to rescue them verse Two Bear one
another's burdens and so fulfill the law
of Christ you know what a work of the
spirit is you know what it will do if
the holy spirit is really over your life
and you see your Brothers struggling you
will help bear their burden you will
step in and bear their burden verse
three for if anyone thinks himself to be
something when he's nothing he deceives
himself if you think you're all that and
a cup of tea I promise you you'll find
out maybe at least the cup of tea is
missing verse
four but let each one examine his own
work take a look at yourself that's a
work of the spirit too go look at
yourself look in the mirror the
spiritual mirror of the word of God it's
like a mirror take a look at it don't
compare it to me that's nothing I mean
we start comparing to each other there's
always something you can find fault with
me and I can find fault with you but if
you're comparing with the word of God it
changes you and then verse five for each
one shall bear his own load that's right
every tub sets in on on his own bottom
my daddy used to say let me tell you
something you have responsibilities
there's nobody on this planet supposed
to do do you're supposed to do it I'm
supposed to do stuff there's stuff I
must do you can't even help me
do I must do it you must do it you have
things you must bear your own
load until you can't anymore culture
says we are
helpless we can't do anything we're all
victims of our
circumstance but we believe the spirit's
working is
helpfulness not
helplessness Dolly Madison you ever
heard of her she is the wife of the
fourth President of the United States
James Madison was her husband he's
president from 1909 to
1817 he was uh not noted for being all
that sociable but dolly
was it's kind of like debb and me you if
you know I don't want to talk to anybody
but she talks to everybody but is noted
for holding Washington social
functions she invited members of both
political parties something that wasn't
done back then spearheading the concept
that we actually hear of today see
little of it
bipartisanship and cooperation one of
the most popular women in American
history is Dolly Madison probably the
only thing you know about it's those
little cakes
she Charmed and cap captivated everyone
around her the Obscure the well-known
the rich the poor men and women
everybody that knew her loved her and
she was friends to everybody once she
was asked by a reporter to explain the
secret of her power and she was
surprised by the question and she
exclaimed power over people
I have
none I desire
none I merely love
everyone H so let's believe that the
work of the spirit is
helpfulness and helpfulness will unite
us all so that's the lesson it's a
simple little lesson the fruit of the
spirit those attitudes can unite us the
Walk of the spirit that selfless
behavior Can unite us the work of the
spirit that desire to be helpful can
unite us Romans 8 ver14 says as many as
are led by the spirit of God these are
the sons of
God religious
people are close
always we're all close and I and I use
that when I say religious I mean Christ
Christian religious people and I'm using
it for everybody that claims to follow
Christ this morning I'm not talking just
about you but I am talking about you and
me but I'm talking about
everybody we're all close to being led
to the
spirit we're all close to being led in
the spirit in
unity and yet we often miss it I read
about I'm I love science I read about
this the other day I didn't know this
existed maybe you know that it existed
HSS every of it didn't even know that
was a thing just three letters that's
all I knew HSS is Hypersonic
sound okay apparently this guy named
Elwood Woody was his nickname Norris
invented this
thing and apparently he can send sound
like a laser beam who have thought in s
sound like a laser beam and in s sound a
150 yards like a laser
bee ain't that interesting now what he
does is you could be 150 yards away you
could be in a conversation with two
three four people he could point that at
you and he could whisper to you and you
would hear it in your ear without a
radio and nobody else standing next to
you could hear it cuz it's a laser beam
of sound you ever heard that I thought
that was incredible
I think that's pretty cool but you know
all you got to do
is you can't hear it
anymore just a little bit out of the
be you can't hear it it but in the
beam are you in the spirit or have
you step
down it doesn't take much hey it's just
a little movement
are you close to the leading in the
spirit led by the spirit those are the
sons of are are you missing just a
little bit can you hear me over
here little boy was flying his car it
was a windy
day wind was blowing pretty
hard and this old boy had leted out a
lot of strength
man came up saw a little boy with his
cat like this and he says where's your
cat he says it's up there so I can't see
anything he said it's up there I think
it's in that cloud
said it are you sure it's up there he
said yeah it's up there how do you know
it's up there he said I can feel it
tugging do you feel the spirit tugging
you to do the right
thing to be
United do you feel
it or have you cut the string have you
stepped out of the
beam let's not miss the spirit's
promptings toward him let's unite by
doing the things we know the Bible
teaches let's hear the word let's
believe it let's repent of our sins
let's confess Christ and let's be
baptized but then more let's make sure
we're standing into being let's make
sure that the wind still got our CAU up
there let's be in the spirit and live
according to the spirit if you need to
come back to the Lord remember the
fruit the
walk the work of the spirit
