we probably all heard the story about
the man who was Shipwrecked on a desert
island and the day finally arrived where
they picked him
up and the guy that rescued him lead guy
that got off the boat was rescuing him
he said uh wow and he's telling him all
about what he had done while he's there
he says well I see three Huts why did
you build three Huts I get one he says
well that one is the one that I sleep in
that's my home
he said well what's that second one
about he says well that's the church I
attend on Sundays he said well what's
the third one about he said sh that's
the church I used to go
to I think we all struggle a little bit
with unity we really do I think there
I'm going to mention what you see up
there every week for a
while same slide every week for a while
uh the distinctive plea of the Church of
Christ and when I say Church of Christ I
don't mean this
group I mean the
group the group from the beginning the
group that God
meant you may Define it as just us I
mean the message to everybody that
claims to be a
Christian the distinctive play of the
Churches of Christ is let us be United
in first and foremost by the word of God
say Unity is our worthy plea that we all
should be about because Jesus prayed for
it as we just saw verses 20 and 21 I do
not pray for these alone but also for
those who will believe in me through
their word that they all may be one as
you father are in me and I in you that
they also may be one in us that the
world may believe that you sent me maybe
some of the reason people don't believe
is because
even local churches struggle with
unity Unity is our worthy plea because
Paul preached Unity 1 Corinthians
chapter 1 verse 10 this is New American
Standard and I think says it even
clearer I exhort you Brethren by the
name of our Lord Jesus Christ that you
all agree and that there be no divisions
among you but that you be made complete
in the same mind and in the the same
judgment so Unity can be a very very
good thing it promotes teamwork and
cooperation it encourages Mutual
understanding and respect it leads to
Collective action and shared goals it
creates a sense of community and
belonging it helps to resolve conflicts
and disputes peacefully it facilitates
problem solving and decision making it
supports and strengthens relationships
it promotes social economic and
political stability it helps to build
trust and confidence among individuals
and groups and it contributes to the
overall social and National development
of any
people not all division is bad
though not all division is
bad so beware the Tyranny listen to me
because I know some of you are on this
path I hear political things
said Beware of the tyranny of your
utopian
Unity utopian Unity sounds like a
wonderful thing I wish we were all
United I wish we all spoke the same
thing I wish even in America everybody
said the same thing no you
don't no you
don't no you don't you would if we were
all saved we were already in heaven and
we all had a remade heart and soul but
we have the seeds of the knowledge of
Good and Evil Within us and because we
have the seeds of the knowledge of Good
and Evil Unity true utopian Unity
worldwide would be the worst thing that
could possibly happen to the
planet Even in our own country it would
be the worst thing that could possibly
happen to us if we were all on exactly
the same page cuz we're tyrannical if we
get that kind of power we go places we
should not go we push people down we
step on people somebody has to be not on
the same page and when they aren't we
will crush them and if you don't believe
that's true let me take you to the Book
of Genesis Genesis 11 and veres 1-9
because there are good reasons for
linguistic division now the whole earth
has had one language and one speech and
it came to pass this is the dream of
everybody right as they journeyed from
the East that they found a plane in the
land of Shar and they dwelt there then
they said to one another come let us
make bricks and bake them thoroughly
they have bricks for stone and they had
asphalt for Mortar and they said come
let us build ourselves a city and a
tower whose top is in in in the heavens
let us make a name for ourselves let we
be scattered abroad over the face of the
whole earth let's be United folks ver
five but the Lord came down to see the
city and the tower which the sons of men
had built and the Lord said indeed the
people are one and they have one
language and this is what they begin to
do here's the trick now nothing that
they propose to do will be withheld from
them that's the dangerous point the rest
of it you can make up anything you want
it's the reason God did that but that's
the reason he did this verse 7 come let
us go down and there confuse their
languages that they may not understand
one another's speech so the Lord
scattered them abroad from there over
the face of the all the Earth and they
ceased building the city man saw their
utopian Unity for good but God saw not
so because he saw there was no utopian
Unity because you forgot about the
tyranical ability of humanity and where
this could go if nothing is
withheld and you don't might not believe
that yet stay with me just a minute
there are good reasons for doctrinal
division we should not be reunited with
everybody and what they believe in the
sense of I sign on to
that Luke 12: 51 and 53 it says do you
suppose that I came to give peace on
Earth I tell you no not at all but
rather division for from now on five and
one house will be divided three against
two and two against three father will be
divided against son and son against
father mother against daughter and
daughter against mother-in-law against
her own daughter-in-law and
daughter-in-law against her
mother-in-law 1 Corinthians 11 verse 19
says for there this is over communion
for there must also be factions among
you there must be in fact he says it has
to happen there must be factions among
you that those who are approved may be
recognized among you the ones not
causing the problem who are sticking to
the truth will be approved 1 John 2 and
verse 19 says this they went out from us
but they were not of us they went out
that they might be made manifest that
they might be made they went out that it
might they might be manifest we needed
to know they went out that they might be
manifest that none of them were of us
there are good reasons for
reformational
divisions 1479 through 183 for was the
Spanish Inquisition maybe you have
forgotten history let me remind you of a
little history the idea was to root out
heresy in the church through the
judicial institutions of Spain they got
permission from the pope this is when we
were all on the same page hey we were
all Catholics our ancestors in Europe
that's when they had it but they took it
out they targeted Jews Muslims and
Protestants not as many of them and how
did they try to bring them in accord
with what they believed they Ed brutal
torture they called it the rack the
pulley the Judas chair and no I want to
explain what that is and water
boarding it's estimated between 30 and
300,000 people were tortured and killed
and the primary way of killing was
burning at the
state yeah we can all be on the same
page right maybe that's the reason since
that's 1478 to 1834 then in 1516 to 1536
we have What's called the Reformation
movement maybe there was a reason for
the Reformation movement maybe there was
a reason to stepping away from a Unity
of
everything in 1516 the Roman Catholic
Church sold indulgences raising money to
rebuild St Peter's Cathedral or Basilica
in Rome alri Von brenberg
deeply in debt because of his church
benefices which means his positions that
he had attained to by paying for them
yeah that
happened rais money to rebuild St Peters
and also to pay off his debt he went to
Pope Leo VI 10th I'm sorry if you're
Catholic in here I'm not trying to pick
on you I'm just trying to sell the truth
here Pope Leo the tent to conduct the
sale of a special plenary Indulgence a
plenary Indulgence not just an
Indulgence they already had that but
this is a plenary indulgent for
remission of the temporal punishment of
sin half of the proceeds were to go to
albre to claim to play for his benefices
of his positions that he'd attained to
and the other half was to go to St
Peter's that big Basilica in Rome was
built by
indulgences in 1517 Martin Luther wrote
his Bishop alri this guy that we're
talking about protesting against the
cell of indulgenced he enclosed in his
letter the disp disposition on the power
and efficency of indulgences and that's
called the 95 thesis Luther simply in
objected to Indulgence insisting
forgiveness was God's alone to Grant you
say well why are you going through all
this Unity they had
Unity they had
Unity there are good reasons for
ethnical
divisions this idea about you need to be
United with your ethnic group is
dangerous I know that's that's common
now well I'm I'm with my buds my Bros
danger
danger Nazi party led by Adolf Hitler
believed in German nationalism but
listen where they went they wanted all
the Germans all across Europe and they
were a lot of Germans all across Europe
they didn't live in Germany they wanted
all of them to unite and be together and
that was the first point of the Nazi
program let me read it for you it says
we demand the unification of all Germans
in the greater Germany on the basis of
the people's right to
self-determination this led to World War
II killing six million Jews when any
group becomes racist whether they are
white or black or or Indian or Asian or
whatever you want to put on them it's
not a good
thing it becomes a
problem in the church we're supposed to
be United by our
faith since Unity is prayed
for and it's preached
for as the church it is our call to
unite in every language
in every culture in every ethnic group
and even every weird kind of doctrinal
thing you might
think needs to somehow wiggle its way in
and be a part of it there are many basis
for church Unity I'm going to run
through one
today let's be United by the
understandable word that's right we
should be able to be United on this
Bible here because you can actually
understand it it's really not that hard
I mean it's about on a fifth grade level
uh Deuteronomy 3011 for this commandment
which I command you today is not too
mysterious for you it is not far off
it's not in heaven that we need to bring
it down it's right here it's right in
your mouth you've already got it you can
do it we can do this let us be United by
the unashamed word there's nothing in
here to be ashamed of I I hear people
almost ashamed of some of the things it
teaches oh well that's in there for you
know killing everybody off well that's
called the flood that's one thing Luke
9: 26 for where for whoever is ashamed
of me in my
words of him the son of man will be
ashamed when he comes in his own glory
and in his fathers and the Holy Angel
you can't can't be ashamed of this we're
going to be United on this you can't be
ashamed of it you got to love it admire
it but don't be ashamed of it and let us
be United by the unbridge word it's
important to
recognize nothing needs to be left out
here in in Luke 21:33 it says Heaven and
Earth will pass away but my words will
by no means pass away God didn't leave
any out somebody wants to all the time
they trying to find a book say oh this
book was left out of the
Bible have you not heard it every time
you turn around somebody who's trying to
throw fire Brands the oh they didn't put
this in folks let me tell you something
God's word has been reserved and it's
not going to pass away we've got it you
don't need to worry about that and we
can get into a study of that that would
take about a year or two to prove it but
right now I'm just going to State it if
you want to do your homework enjoy the
next two
years number
next let's be United by the United word
see the words not really divided we talk
about rightly dividing the word of truth
but that's not what that's about it's
not talking about dividing it it's
talking about handling it right but John
5 and verse 46 for says for if you
believe Moses you would believe me for
he wrote about me so if you believe the
Old Testament you got to believe the New
Testament believe the New Testament you
got to believe the Old Testament there
are no divisions in that's the way it is
you're supposed to believe it's one
whole thing this isn't about well I
don't I'm I'm you know of this group
because we only look at this part of the
Bible uh
no uh number
next we need to be United by the
unavoidable
word I mean you may think you can hide
from it but you can't John 12: 48 he who
rejects me and does not receive my words
has that which judges him the word that
I have spoken will judge him in the last
day this will be laying up on the
counter folks
it's not going
away it's
unavoidable might as well learn to deal
with it it's coming to a theater near
you it's unavoidable let's be United by
the undeniable word there are those who
would like to throw off on the Bible
most of them are highly uneducated on
this subject and what they only read or
the things that throw fire Brands I'd
like to take you back to college and
show you you the
proofs but you know really at some point
you just got to believe listen to what
it says Titus 1 verse two in Hope of
eternal
life which God who cannot
lie promised Before Time began there
isn't a lie in here Thy word is truth I
think we read a while
ago Thy word is truth and it's
undeniable if you do your
word number next let us be United by the
undying word see this word is not just a
book this word is alive 1 Peter 1:23
having been born again not of
corruptible seed but Incorruptible
through the word of God which lives and
abides
forever in the presence of this book
yeah but also in heaven forever more
because the word send it back to the
father so the distinctive plea of the
Church of Christ and I don't mean this
church I mean
of the Church of Christ the one you read
about right the one we're supposed to be
that one right the one we're trying to
be the distinctive pleas is Let's Be
United by the word it's an
understandable word it's an unashamed
word it's not embarrassed by anything it
says it's an unabridged word nothing's
been left out that you need it's United
word it is an unavoidable word it is an
undeniable word and it's an undying word
so if we claim to follow God's word we
should be
ashamed if we do not try to be
United in a congregation sure absolutely
amen so somebody hurts your feelings you
try to look past it amen try to work it
out you don't just get mad and huff off
you work it out
we should be United We but more than
that we should treat everybody that
believes in this word with great
respect
amen everybody who believes in that word
needs to be respected maybe it's a lack
of respect that keeps us from finding a
way to being
united we need the spiritual strength
that Unity would provide for us
look at this this is just for physical
stuff but it sends a message to us all
two are better than
one because they have a good reward for
their labor works out you married right
what you married for we don't need to be
married don't need to make it work oh
yeah you do yeah you do for if they fall
one will lift up His companion but woe
to him who is alone when he falls where
is no one to help him what you going to
do how many times have I talked to
somebody who is in need and wants a help
from the church you know one the first
things I ask him you you a member of a
church somewhere I don't care where he's
at but but I said you know and then I'll
tell him I said you know it even if you
don't believe in Jesus right now it'd be
a good backup plan to have a group of
people who love you that you go to
church with and you sit with on a su
that's not a bad plan this idea that you
only want to help from a church whenever
you have problems that's not much of a
plan again if two lie down together they
will keep warm but how can one be warm
alone you spent those nights like that
you felt your eyes you feet of your wife
verse 12 though one may be overpowered
by another two can withstand him and a
three-fold cord is not quickly
broken Unity there's a power in it
German philosopher I can't even
pronounce that name compared the human
race to a bunch of
porcupines he say it's like a bunch of
porcupines we're all just like a bunch
of porcupines but it's a cold night so
it's a bunch of porcupines all across
the world and it's a very very cold
night and we all have 30,000 quails okay
so it's a very cold night the colder it
gets outside the more we kind of try to
huddle together for warmth but the
closer we get to one another other the
more we hurt one another with our sharp
quills and in the lonely night of Earth
winter he says eventually we begin to
drift
apart and wander out on our
own and freeze to death in our
loneliness have you ever heard of the
dance of the porcupines it's a real
thing I saw a porcupine dancer didn't
know they did did y'all know that
that's pork pine dance I can do
it that's what they do no that's not a
joke it's sounds like a joke sounds
ridiculous sounds but if you watch them
it look like they got a rhythm to them
it's pretty good right I don't but
pretty good room so and it looks like
they're hearing something like they're
hearing something and the reason is
because they do have 30,000
quails but they're porcupines I don't
know if you know this but there are
herds of
elephants there are packs of
wolves there's even gaggles of geese but
there are no herds of
porcupines they don't run together in
fact what porcupines they only operate
on two things run or fight that's it
they either run away or they're ready
you know throw that Quil it yeah that's
what they
do but they're porcupines
what does it tell
you at least occasionally they got to
get together right or there would be no
baby porcupines right I don't know how
you have a baby that's a porcupine but
that's another story entirely so here we
have and that's where the dance comes
they pull their quills in they stand
up hey
baby how you can do
it even porcupines
learn to
dance they learn how to get past the
quills I got to tell
you I'm a little
weird I can be extremely difficult I can
be extremely
stressful you'd have to be one of my
children to know that fully or my
wife and I tend to
run or
attack but I'm not the only one one with
quills are you hearing
me quit looking at me
funny I'm not the only
one with quills you
porcupines it takes
Grace porcupines have to learn
Grace and somehow have to learn how to
get
along they have to hear that beat
that
call to be
United it might look
funny it works for
them it would work for
us
amen let's base our Unity on God's
word and make
adjustments to people who don't totally
think like
us and learn to dance with them
somehow our distinctly is to be United
by the word let's Let It Be our guide
Acts 2 and:
38 what they all do they were all told
to repent and be baptized in the name of
Jesus Christ for the remission of sins
they were all told to do that verse 41
and those that gladly received the
word did it
that's how simple it
is just pull those quills in for just a
moment and listen to the word and learn
to dance with one
another that's your invitation let's be
United and let's plead for that to the
whole world won't you come if you need
to while we stand and while we sing
