heard of a church in Georgia that uh you
know how we publish sometimes our sick
list they published a sick list and next
to their they put the name on there and
then they put a very brief uh
description of maybe what they needed to
be prayed for and they as they went down
the line they noticed by the name this
one name it said this pain in the neck
so I think sometimes they could be said
about all of us but uh so but we need to
try not to be a pain in the neck to the
congregation when you agree uh we're on
about the eth or the 9th uh in this
series so we've survived so far maybe we
can make it to the end here uh we're
looking at the unity uh by the idea of
cooperating uh in a world which is
really in a fallen State uh we need to
learn how to cooperate biblically I want
to talk just a real quick just kind of
his introductory real quick here about
there needs to be a language of words
that commit to cooperation you may not
be aware it but sometimes your your
words betray your heart that we need to
speak words that sound like we're really
for Unity and really for cooperation
what you say out of your mouth may
suggest what you have said to others
about what you really want May not be
true because the way we talk about it
look at 1 Corinthians 12 just briefly
Church cooperation requires words of
unification you need to say things that
sound like that words matter it says
there the body is not one member but
many if the foot should say because I'm
not a hand I am not of the body is it
therefore not of the body and if the ear
should say because I'm not an eye I am
not of the body is it therefore not of
the body be careful what you say uh your
words need to speak unification more
than that your words need to suggest
submission to the father on this idea of
unification when he says in verse 17 in
that same text if the whole body were an
eye where would be the hearing if the
whole were hearing where would be the
smelling see God built the body not you
not me but now God has set he set the
members each one of them in the body
just as he pleased we need to surrender
to that and if they were all one member
where would the body be but now indeed
there are many members yet one body so
this idea of well I don't think you're
or I don't think you should be or I
don't care about you that's out we need
to speak words of submission to the
father it doesn't matter if a person is
a problem or a pain in the neck we need
to speak words of cooperation and
submission to the Father the next little
concept to want you to see in these
words is church cooperation requires
words of mediation not controversy but
mediation it says in verse 21 and the
eye cannot say to the hand I have no
need of you nor again the head to the
feet I have no need of you no much
rather those members of the body which
seem to be weaker are necessary so you
look at somebody and you say I don't
know if they're even a Christian I know
they attend here occasionally but are
they really who they claim to be you you
don't need to be talking like that you
to speak words of mediation of course
they're a Christian of course they're a
faithful member of the kingdom and then
the fourth little thing I want you to
see here is that church cooperation
requires words of appreciation if you
want to learn to cooperate you got to
learn to say thank you and I appreciate
you and I'm so grateful for you listen
to what it says in verse 23 those
members of the body which we think to be
less honorable on these we bestow
greater honor instead of saying what we
think they're worth we say better than
what we think they're worth and our
unpresentable parts of Greater modesty
we cover up parts of our body because
not because we don't care about those
parts but because we are actually
honoring those parts but our presentable
Parts have no need but God composed the
body having given greater honor to that
part which lacks I don't need anybody
come to me and say oh you got the most
beautiful hands in the world who cares
about what your hands look like really
couldn't care less what your hands look
like I know some of you women care about
your hands but I don't care about your
hands sorry uh so appreciation learn to
appreciate them though so the people
that seem to be less valuable say hey
you're so important to me then the last
little word here this is important we're
not into the lesson but this is really
important this is about your speech
Church cooperation requires words of
compassion we need to be compassionate
in what we say about each other and this
is about anybody that even claims the
name of Christ anybody that claims the
name of Christ be careful how you speak
about those people I says here in verse
25 that there should be no Schism no
division in the body but that the
members should have the same care one
for another you should love them as much
as anybody and if one member suffers all
the members suffer with it or if one
member is honored all the members
Rejoice with it those are the kind of
words so be careful how you speak about
anybody that claims to be a follower of
Christ be careful speak more cautiously
and more reverently what are the obvious
Church Cooperative activities though
that unite us and this is we're going to
look at three there's just three I'm not
going to take all day and by the way I
want to say this is not to prove
authority to do these things people are
mistaken about their understanding of
authority listen to me you Church of
Christ people listen to me real clearly
a lot of what you argue for for
Authority is not about Authority it's
about obedience quit thinking that we
have authority to do these things these
are things what we're comp compell to do
you don't need the authority to do this
you've been ordered to do what I'm going
to talk about today so quit saying well
I have the authority
to you don't have authority to do much
of anything except do what the Lord
tells you to do that's what you need to
do quit thinking oh we are authorized we
have author we don't have an authority
we're talking it don't even talk like
that that's not even appropriate okay
number one let's be United by the
cooperation of churches in our charities
I'm going to just focus on this first
verse even though there's quite a few
here that I'd like for you to read in
your own time and in these days prophets
came from Jerusalem to Antioch then one
of them named agabus stood up and showed
by the spirit that there was going to be
a Great Famine throughout all the world
which also happened it's another one in
the days of Claudia Caesar that's a
different record verse 29 then the
disciples each according to his ability
determined to send relief to the
Brethren dwelling in Judea they also did
and sent it to the elders by the hand of
Barnabas and Saul here's the interesting
thing it's a church different church not
Jerusalem these different churches
across the world and I could read all of
these scriptures but they're right there
in front of you you can read them all
this passage we read in 1 Corinthians 16
about our contribution is really about
this and we make it about our
contribution but it's really about this
event that we're talking about right now
and churches cooperating all over the
world to take care of the needy saints
that were in Jerusalem in that Judea in
that area and all the various churches
that Paul had been a part of like across
galatia uh that he mentions in 1
Corinthians 16 we're a part of this and
so cooperation to do benevolence and I
as I'm talking about this all I can
think about right now is towards
Ministry and going down there and
building houses for people and 16
congregations being involved in doing
that that's that is cooperation and
charity so since it is clear early
churches cooperated in Charities and
charity events it is be weird to be
United by the cooperation of churches in
our various Charities and this idea that
oh well we don't need to get involved in
their Charities and our Charities and
blah you know some of that's kind of
ridiculous some of the arguments we make
over that number next let's be United by
the cooperation of churches in our
commissions we have been commit
commissioned to do things and I'll just
read a couple of verses acts 9:15 says
but the Lord said to him go for he's a
chosen vessel of mine talking about Saul
who would later recall Paul
go for he's a chosen vessel of mine to
Bear my name before Gentiles Kings and
the children of Israel that was going to
be his mission we find out in Acts 13
that they were sent out him and Barnabas
again in Acts 14 he comes back and
reports that's the reason I've got that
up there and for 2 Corinthians 11:8 and9
he talks about how I robbed other
churches to minister to you so various
churches supported his ministry that God
had commissioned him same thing happened
with the apostles same thing happened
with prophets in the New Testament
churches supported those Works often
cooperatively together more than one
Church would support a man in the field
and that would be the way that we got
things done Philippians as you know it
says this now you Philippians know also
that in the beginning of the Gospel when
I departed from Macedonia no church
shared with me concerning giving and
receiving but you only so he only had
one sponsoring church if you will for
even in thessalonica you sent Aid once
and again for my Necessities so here's
the truth Mission work can't be done
cannot be done unless we cooperate one
congregation cannot even take care
generally of one man in the field it's
rare that one congregation can do that
but cooperatively we can support a lot
as a congregation we have supported
people in Guyana that's South America in
Africa several places in Africa Central
uh America which right now we kind of
support someone in Panama and some of
the work that we just talking about in
torch missions we supported work in
Scotland if you count up all the
missionaries by all churches and all the
world and what they're trying to do
there's 430,000 missionaries out there
430,000 and they're just they all
teaching the death burial and
resurrection of Christ my point is
simply this that could not happen unless
people were cooperating together and
that's all I'm trying to suggest to you
is there needs to be a spirit of
cooperation when it comes to the idea of
committing to the mission that we've
been committed to do so let's be clear
about this early churches cooperated in
their commissions that God had given
them and we need to be United by the
cooperation of the church in our
commissions the last point I want you to
see is this and this one's one that's
often kind of missed so I want to nail
this one down a little stronger that's
the reason I had him read this earlier
I'm not going to reread this passage to
you but let's be United by the
cooperation of churches in our
controversies and listen to me what I'm
trying to suggest when there is a
controversy it is incumbent upon even if
there's two Brethren listen to me even
if it's just between two Brethren it is
incumbent upon the rest of us to help
them fix that so whenever there's a
problem between the congregation or an
issue it is incumbent upon all of us to
do all we can to help fix that that is a
churchwide problem congregations need to
cooperate in resolving Even doctrinal
Matters by the way that does happen Acts
chapter 6 we it happening right when
they asked them to resolve the problem
in Acts chapter 6 they got the people
from uh the Grecian background to pick
the wh the people who would take care of
the wit us that were being neglected in
the daily Administration we've had
similar things we've had lecture ships
on this kind of thing we've had uh
workshops on this kind of thing across
the Brotherhood and we've had Q&amp;A at
things like uh freed Hardman have Q&amp;A
where they discuss problems that
Brethren would have my preacher when I
was a kid his name is Gus Nichols and he
went around various congregations trying
to help them resolve when the church is
about to split so that's a part of the
responsibility of all of us to write try
to get these things resolved now in this
text that you read up there which was
read earlier which is great that's a a
text about Antioch receiving Brethren
from Jerusalem who were causing trouble
in Antioch so it isn't a case that the
church at Jerusalem necessarily was the
authority and every had to go get their
permission to do what they did it's that
they had caused the problem and now they
need to go to them to fix the problem do
you understand what's happening here so
so many too many people going oh well it
was the apostles in Jerusalem that had
the authority to fix this no it's two
congregations having an issue with each
other and they need to talk to each
other about it so they send them back
along with other people we don't even
have listed here that's in your text and
to work this out in Acts 15:1 19-21 it
says therefore I judge that we should
not trouble those from among the
Gentiles who are turning to God we don't
need to create more problems for them
but that we write to them to abstain
from things polluted by Idols from
sexual immortality from things strangled
and from blood those are the things that
would give all the Jews who would want
to be Christians in their assembly some
problems eating with them verse 21 for
Moses has said throughout many
generations those who preach him in
every city being read in the synagogues
every Sabbath so they all know that
stuff so they they travel from Antioch
to Jerusalem that's 300 miles listen to
me that's walking or riding a donkey or
a horse for 300 miles that's an average
about 20 miles a day that means it took
right at two weeks to make the trip just
one direction from Antioch to Jerusalem
just to solve a problem that Brethren
were having do you hear me just to solve
a problem in Acts 15: 23- 24 it says
they wrote this letter to them the
apostle
the elders now listen to that it wasn't
the apostles edict and everybody must
listen to the apostles that's not the
case here and everybody who's ever
thought that's what it was think listen
to what's being said in this text the
apostles the elders what's Elders have a
right to say anything it's a
congregation with a congregation are you
following me now this is not a
churchwide thing that now you edicts
coming down from the uh the Apostle
that's not really what's happening here
and don't make it more than it is the
apostle the elders and the Brethren what
right did they have to speak the whole
congregation agreed with what was going
on well they don't have any right it's
only the apostles no you need to reread
your Bible this is a congregation to
congregation problem to the Brethren who
are of the Gentiles in Antioch Syria and
cissa that's where the problem would
been so it's three different
congregations at least were experienc
the same kind of thing so greetings
since we have heard that some who went
out from us have troubled you some of
our bread Brethren our congregation went
over and stirred up trouble in your
congregations unsettling your soul
saying You must be circumcised and keep
the law to whom we gave no such
commandment we didn't send them to you
and we certainly didn't tell them to do
that that's how you solve problems right
acts 15: 30 and 31 it says so when they
were sent off they came to Antioch which
is a two-e trip again back so they've
been gone like a month when they had
gathered the multitude together they
delivered the letter and when they read
it Rejoice over in encouragement and
then they went around and read the
letter in the other congregations who
got stirred up by it that's acts 16: 4
and 5 it says and they went through the
cities they delivered to them the
decrees to keep which were determined by
the apostles and Elders at Jerusalem so
the churches were strengthened in the
faith increased the number daily I'm
just simply saying don't miss this point
it's really important when there are one
of the things we cooperate about is
Charity one of the things we cooperate
about is our commission to go all the
world preach the gospel every creature
and one of the things we cooperate about
is when we know that there's a problem
we work together to solve those problems
that's individually that's collectively
that's Brotherhood wide that is our
responsibility and you need to
understand it and receive it that's for
us all so that's the lesson today
um if we struggle to maintain un Unity
within a single Church there's no wonder
that we have a worldwide epidemic of a
lack of unity and cooperation
that it's no wonder when one
preacher or one church or one Fellowship
gains an upper hand in perceived
Perfection is there any Wonder we cannot
be United in cooperation well if our
church is more perfect than somebody
else's Church you see why should we suly
our hands and touching them or working
with them
Charles Dylan or Casey stingle I think
it's the way you say it it's American
Baseball League U guy he's a Fielder and
a manager is best known for managing the
New York Yankees in
1950s L later expanded the New York Mets
his nickname was the old Professor you
remember this guy he's elected to the
Baseball Hall of Fame in 1966 and he
said
listen to this it's really good he said
this it is easy to get good
players getting them to play together
that's the hard
part when one preacher listen to this
again or one church or one Fellowship
gains an upper hand in
perceived
Perfection is it any wonder that we
cannot figure out a way to be
cooperating with each other J Michael
Shannon a professor of preaching at
Cincinnati Bible College in Cincinnati
Ohio said this and I won't read his
whole quote but he says it has been well
said that the man who holds the ladder
at the
bottom is about as important as the man
at the top
when one preacher or one church or one
Fellowship gains an upper hand in
perceived
Perfection is it any Wonder we cannot be
United in
cooperation Charles Ood told a story
about two ladies these two ladies were
in a convalescent home they had both
experienced a
stroke Margaret her stroke had affected
her left side
so her left arm would not work y'all
know about Strokes my father had a
stroke that's what killed him actually
in the end Margaret's stroke was on her
left
side Ruth her friend stroke was on her
right
side right couldn't move his right
arm the director of the Convalescent
Center got them to sit down they had
both been concert
pianist but they couldn't play anymore
what you going to do so he got them to
sit at a piano together and play pieces
one played with one hand and one played
with the other and they were a blessing
to everybody around them and they could
play some of the most beautiful things
together I can't do everything can
you I can't get it all right can you but
you know if I could work with somebody
that makes up for my bad
parts maybe we could learn to
cooperate maybe we could just just quit
thinking we got it all sorted out and
recognize I got a bad side
too what a picture of the church
cooperation that's internal Brotherhood
that's external Brotherhood that's
ecuminical interdenominational thinking
and that's International cooperation you
say well I don't like any of that talk
there's the problem see it's our
words and then we think we know and we
never even look when one preacher one
church or one Fellowship gains an upper
hand and perceive
Perfection no cooperation is going to
follow is
there why would I cooperate an inferior
you why would you cooperate with an
inferior
me maybe our words maybe our attitude
needs to improve right Church
cooperation it is something we're called
to it is something that's essential and
we need to work at it do I know all the
answers no if you come up to me today
and says I don't know if I agree with
what you said I probably agree with
you but we need to have a better spirit
