well we have two men vying for president
in their 80s so the topic of Elder is on
our thoughts a lot we think about it a
lot been a lot of examination about that
it's not that 80 is that old but I'm
told that whiskey that old is very
expensive so um it's not that it's that
old um I'm headed toward it quickly uh
the distinctive plea of the Church of
Christ and I mean that as broadly as I
can it's let's be United and today we
want to focus if I've already said it
but I want to say it again we're
focusing on uh being united by the
organization of the church particularly
as it relates to Elders we may be cross
denominational lines more united on that
than we have been in the past and I'll
point that to you it's actually the
world is changing around us on this
subject you know it was once a secret
that the Fallen World
divisions uh stop tyrannical uh Unity
unity all Unity is not necessarily good
sometimes United that just means
nobody's allowed to walk out of step and
you get in trouble for being out of Step
Don ratzliff in Christian leadership
back in 198 1993 wrote if Jesus is Lord
then he must also be Lord of our
politics that an unarguable Christian
truth that everybody argues about too
many of us Christians confuse political
convictions with spiritual
convictions insecure with ambiguity we
assume people of one Lord one faith and
one baptism Must ALL promote one
political agenda that assumption leads
to the church in trouble first it
promotes us to make judgments about
people that ought to be left to God
second when the church confuses
spiritual and political convictions it
is tempted to use political power to
forward a spiritual agenda I think those
are good thoughts that's from
93 it was once a secret also as we've
studied recently that we were to be
United by God's mysterious plan because
Jesus prayed for our Unity and Paul
preached for our Unity the only pattern
in the New Testament and this is the
reason I'm going here on this the only
pattern in the New
Testament is that there would
be
Elders in every church as we just read I
mean you read it clearly a moment ago
didn't you didn't you see that Elders
were appointed in every church I don't
think that was a maybe
and I think you need to understand that
a plurality of Elders were appointed in
every church that means no single Pastor
if that's what you think you need to
call me which I'm not but I'm just a
preacher but if I were a pastor it would
be inappropriate for me to run rough
shot over everybody because that is not
the scriptural way every time it is a
plurality look at it up here on the
board uh acts 11:30 and they sent it to
the elders
acts 14:23 they had appointed Elders in
every Church Philippians 1:1 to all the
saints with the Bishops there other word
for Elder and deacons 1 Timothy 3 1-15
it's about this whole subject of the
qualifications of Elders then he
summarizes in verse 15 I write so that
you may know how you ought to conduct
yourself in the house of God that's the
house of God you say well I don't I
don't like that concept well that's what
we are taught to do in the house of God
in Titus 1 verse5 it says for this
reason I left you in cre talking to
Titus that you should set in order the
things that are lacking what things were
lacking and appoint Elders in every city
so the idea of a plurality ruling over a
congregation is not just one verse off
by its side but it is the New Testament
thinking now where I want to go with
that is that
Presbyterians
Catholics independent non-denominational
ISS
Pentecostals and now a growing number of
Southern Baptists are appointing Elders
in every
Church did you know that you may be
unaware of that in fact almost all
community churches now which are
predominantly theologically Southern
Baptists are now run by Elders that's
right let me give you some evidence of
that so you might think that I'm making
that up but what I'm seeing is a
movement toward the center of where we
stand Baptist News global says why is
there a growing Trend toward Elder
governance in southern baptist churches
this is an article by uh guy named
Kennedy back in April he says there is a
growing Trend among Southern Baptist
Churches to adopt an elder based model
over the traditional congregational
model in Baptist Churches the concept of
el Elder Le polity refers to a specific
form form of church governance where
Elders play a central role in decision
making and spiritual leadership a small
group of men are selected elected or
appointed to govern the church the more
traditional model in Baptist Churches
has been the use of committees and
deacons to decisions for the church are
made by the congregation now however a
growing number of southern baptist
churches are joining Bible churches and
non-denominational churches naming
Elders to set their Direction and to do
the business of the church unless you
think that's a oneoff John MacArthur of
Grace Community Church Los Angeles
probably some of you seen this on the
news their website biblical eldership is
on their website you can look it up and
uh he's a Chief proponent of Elder rule
congregations he said this the
consistent pattern throughout the New
Testament is that each local body of
Believers is to be shepherded by a
plurality of God ordained Elders simply
stated this is the only pattern for
church leadership given in the New
Testament these are his words not mine
nowhere in scripture does one find a
local assembly ruled by majority opinion
or by a single pastor Mark de dver who
is the pastor of Capitol Hill Baptist
Church in Washington DC also very
influential Baptist pastor ad Advocates
also for the Elder model in fact he was
speaking in 2004 at a conference way
back then so it's been popular for a
while and he argued quote a body of
Elders is the New Testament model of
church structure a clear distinction
between being Elder Le and Elder ruled
and rejecting the Presbyterian model
that distinguishes between teaching
elders and ruling Elders so he thinks
that Presbyterian are not quite there
although Presbyterians have led the way
in many respects on the eldership that's
the reason Bart W Stone had such an
impact upon the early church and its
restoration movement because of the
Elder teaching John MacArthur also goes
on to say he notes the church governance
he and dver the guy just quoted uh HS is
something of a tough sell to many modern
churches he said because of its Heritage
of democratic values and its long
history of Congregational Church
government modern American
evangelic evangelic I can't even saying
evangelicalism there it is often views
the concept of Elder rule with suspicion
the clear teaching of scripture however
demonstrates that the biblical Norm for
churchly leadership is a plurality of
God ordained elders and only by
following this biblical pattern will the
church maximize its fruitfulness to the
glory of God these are not Church of
Christ people per se Southern Baptist
convention president Bart Barber wrote
in 2014 noting the trend the trend of
changing Church governance and this not
just happening within Baptist uh the
theological circles but I'm just
pointing to them because there's such a
large influence in our area he says but
something else has been happening in the
Southern Baptist
convention something that has not
appeared on the agenda of any annual
meeting that will also figure
prominently in our recollection of this
moment in our history this is the era
when southern baptist churches in large
numbers began to change the governance
of our churches this is the day of the
Elder Le movement in the southern
Baptist convention and it is
significant
so
Unity the following supportive arguments
believe it or not and I I want I need to
give credit for this lesson this is not
me almost nothing in this lesson's from
me okay so you'll like that especially
if you don't like my preaching so
basically the values that I'm going to
give you today actually came from a
southern Baptist
website okay so this is a southern
baptist
teaching every point that I make is the
point they make on their website now
some of you are saying there why is he
doing that far because he the what I
just said that's why I'm doing it but
let me give you these there are eight uh
seven duties uh that Elders have and
that we need to be United Upon Our
organization of the church and the
duties that our elders have and the
elders need to be United on these things
all right number
one let us be United by the organization
of shepherds who are Regulators
Regulators yeah acts 15:22 if you recall
acts 15 is the big discussion of whether
or not we Gentiles had to be circumcised
to be accepted to be saved right you're
aware of that whole discussion uh Acts
15:22 says then it pleased the apostles
and Elders let me explain the elders
were a part of making this decision this
was not an Apostolic thing that the
apostles did a lot of people want to
make it out to be that but it wasn't
that this was Apostles and Elders in
unison it says that then it pleased the
apostles and Elders by the way it wasn't
just them either with the whole church
after they heard all this the whole
church agreed to it so it pleased the
apostles and Elders with the Church to
send so they're going to regulate things
within the Brotherhood the best they can
to send chosen men of their own company
to Antioch where they' stirred up some
trouble because some of their Brethren
with Paul and Barnabas namely Judas he
hadn't been with them to do this before
who was also named barabus and Silas
Leading Men among the Brethren and they
sent this letter and they were trying to
regulate the division that they were
seeing occur number
two so that means that Elders kind of
regulate settle things down now you may
not be aware of that but that's critical
job of
Elders and you may not realize that they
do that a
lot they they settle stuff down behind
the scenes and that's a critical role
and you don't hear about troubles that's
an eldership doing good because I assure
you every church has troubles every
church has troubles it says uh it goes
on to say let us be United by the
organization of shepherds who are
overseers overseers Acts 20 and verse 28
therefore take heed to yourself and to
all the flock among which the Holy
Spirit has made you overseers to
Shepherd the Church of God which he
purchased with his own blood so they are
to oversee us if you want Total
independence from the eldership this is
not a church you should be at
but we would hope that that would not be
your feeling that you would want to come
under the oversight of God and therefore
the oversight of the elders who is the
one who devised this not us number
next I think this Baptist guy did a good
job let us be United by the organization
of shepherds who are caretakers so
they're not only to be regulators and
overseers there to be caretakers of the
flock 1 Timothy 3 and: 5 for if a man
does not know how to rule his own house
how will he take care of the Church of
God if you can't keep your house in
order Elders you have no business being
an elder in a church right that's
basically it but the way that they are
able to take care of H their house is a
good training ground for taking care of
the church that's the idea so it's a
simple idea and so even in the idea of
Charity in Acts 11:30 when they
delivered all of the food and the like
for the sake of the famine they were
facing they delivered it to elders and
the elders distributed it because they
took care of the needs of the
congregation and would know who was the
most needy and that's why they did it
number
next that is let us be United by the
organization of shepherds who are app
pointers app
pointers you may not realize this but I
was not hired by this
congregation you may not realize this
but Keegan wasn't hired by this
congregation may have been an elder
mistake
but they are the
reporters 1 Timothy 4 4 14 says do not
neglect the gift that is in you which
was given to you by Prophecy with the
laying on of the hands of the eldership
that's not supposed to be some kind of
miraculous thing as much as is an
appointment thing and if you want to
wonder what the laying on of hands that
always relates to appointing you could
read acts 6 and verse 6 1 Timothy 5 and
verse 22 when someone was appointed to
do a particular task for the church they
often put their hands on them and prayed
for them number next let us be
United by the organization of shepherds
who are
Defenders and this is critical here it
may not seem like it is but it's
critical Titus 1: 7-9 we'll just read
verse 9 he's talking to the Bishops the
elders that are appointed that Titus was
to appoint and what kind of men he's
supposed to look for in that it says in
verse n holding fast these guys should
be able to be men who would be holding
fast the faithful word as he has been
taught that he may be able that doesn't
mean he needs to be doing this all the
time but he needs to be able by sound
Doctrine both to exort that is like to
encourage to do the right thing and to
convict that means to pretty much put
somebody in their place that's right to
exhort and to convict those who
contradict well that may not be popular
but it's essential because because a
church cannot keep believing roughly the
same thing if we allow somebody to come
in and just teach any crazy thing they
want to so somebody has to say who no no
no number
next let us be United by the
organization of shepherds who are
exemplars they give us the example that
we're supposed to live it's 1 Peter 5
there're supposed to be the kind of
people in this church that we all go
they're doing a really good job with
their life their
family their business their
walk I need to be more like them that's
what they're supposed to be like 1 Peter
5 now that that may bother you because
you think I'm just as good as anybody
else well you may be but that doesn't
mean you're an example to everybody else
1 Peter 5: 1-3 says the elders who are
among you I exhort I who am a fellow
Elder as Peter was putting himself in
that group you know he is married
apparently had children he had a
mother-in-law and a witness of the
sufferings of Christ and also a partaker
of the glory that will be revealed verse
two the shepherd the flock of God which
is among you serving as overseers that
word again not by compulsion but
willingly in other words that you know
Elders shouldn't have had to be forced
to do what they need to do not for
dishonest gain but eagerly so in other
words really if money gets involved
sometimes it could look like it's all
about the money verse three nor is being
Lords over those entrusted to you but
being examples to the flock we need to
be able to look at them and say Well
they're living it and they're asking us
to live it let's live it number
last let's
United by the organization of shepherds
who are
teachers and I saved this one for last
not just because this was the order in
that Baptist website but because I think
it's the most powerful one over and over
again I've given you several verses here
this is the teaching that they are to be
able to teach let the elders who rule
well be counted worthy of double honor
especially those who labor in the word
and doctrine that means teaching and and
in teaching basically so they need to be
able to teach what needs to be taught so
that the rest of the congregation no
okay there's the lesson here's it is
that's not
me this is from a Baptist
website and I find that
encouraging the seven duties of
Elders now if we pick at each other
who are led by
Elders we cannot find any form of
unity and the result will be Jesus
prayer and Paul's preaching is just
going to end up being
ignored we must act to the best of our
ability with spiritual maturity and
focus on the things that unite us that's
the message to our country that's the
message to the world that's the message
to this church both locally and the
church internationally we must act with
spiritual maturity and 16 congregations
with spiritual maturity can cooperate
together and do good works the Atlantic
Monthly back in '94 told about uh the
Superstar tenders you may remember these
guys they sang together one time Jose K
corus I never could say his name Place
uh placeo Domingo I'm going to come back
to him in a minute and Luciano pavati
and you've heard these guys I bet you
probably saw the three teners sing
together probably heard some of the
singing and they were together in Los
Angeles and so a reporter as reporters
like to do the reporter sought you know
an angle on the story that would get
somebody's dander up and so the reporter
asked this question is there any
competitiveness between you three great
teners and plac Placo Domingo is the one
that answered for them all he
said you have to put all of your
concentration into opening your heart to
the
music you can't be Rivals when you're
together making
music let me say that again you listen
to this because every American
every citizen the
world every member of the
church every member of
denominationalism ought to hear those
words
again you have to put all your
concentration into opening your heart to
the music let me change that just a bit
you have to put all your concentration
into opening your heart to the Lord
Jesus you can't can't be Rivals when
you're together making
music that's true in the church locally
that's true of the church
internationally you know everybody's not
Creek Side thank the
Lord I'm not even happy with us all the
time are
you I think you you be dishonest if
you're happy with us all the time if you
like everything I do you must be my
mother but no so no and I I'm like
seriously uh of course we're not going
to like some of the stuff we do we're
we're not going to like some of the
stuff that happens here from time to
time if that wasn't the case we're not
made of humans right I get that but
that's okay we don't expect everybody
out there to be Creekside and and we
can't be everybody out there but but we
should as our congregation seek to
worship God in unity seek to share
Christ Jesus in unity seek to transform
lives in unity seek to serve the
community around us in unity but things
like organization of shepherds they
shouldn't divide us they should unite us
and if you listen to the lesson here you
know everybody's starting to get it
about elders
and that's good news what else might we
unite over amen so would you like to
unite with us that would be wonderful we
would like to unite with you if you were
to repent of your sins confess the name
of Christ and be baptized today we would
be thrilled to be United with you
