so is it smart to
ask what Biblical principles should
guide Church
construction I I think it's essential to
ask that question I think it's something
uh the leaders have been asking for a
long time much of which you might not
have been aware of and been praying
about asking about about our church and
the building use and the like and it's
essential to us that we be building
according to God's will doing what we
believe God would have us to do uh so
we're going to be reviewing some
principles of uh establishing biblical
authorization for what we're trying to
do and so that's what this first part of
the lesson I'm going to do this morning
and then I'm going to get on to actual
lesson U the the first thing that I want
you to see is the three principles for
matters of Faith now most of you know
this uh you've been around the church a
long time so you're well aware of the
General guidance that we base everything
that we do upon uh what are those
biblical guides that that we look to
what are we to look at and examine when
we pick up the Bible we generally use
this little C ni as a guide and it's
basically the three points that you see
before you there and that is uh known as
the primary biblical principles of
interpretation God's commands always
rule so we want to do things in matters
of Faith according to God's commands we
used to say it this way because I'm
going to read a passage that actually
says it this way Exodus
422-23 says then when you shall say say
to Pharaoh thus says the Lord we always
look for a thus saith the Lord uh Israel
is my son my firstborn so I say to you
let my son go that he may serve me but
if you will refuse to let him go indeed
I will kill your son in your firstborn
so it's a serious matter to do what thus
sayeth the Lord whatever God says to do
we try to do just what God says to do
those are called Commandments John 15:14
uh Jesus talks about the things he says
there are your commands 1 Timothy 411
these commands are to the church we have
many commands through the New Testament
and so that's the first rule the second
rule that's where the C comes in the
second rule is approved examples not
just examples there are examples in
scripture that we are not to follow
that's right there are examples in the
scriptures that are not to be followed
there are bad people talked about in
Scripture that did bad things and in a
sense they are an example they're an
example of doing the bad thing we're not
to follow them we're to follow an
approved example in John 13:15 probably
the most approved example says for I
have given you an example that you
should F do as I have done to you that's
Jesus The Humble Son of God God saying
basically I have performed a menial task
a a stinky task washing your feet and
you need to take note of that and be
willing to serve one another in whatever
way needs to be done for each other in
the Name of Love that's what we're
supposed to do for each other that is an
approved example so anybody that says I
don't have to do what you say I don't
have to go along with you they don't
understand that particular example
because that sits the standard so there
are God's commands there are approved
examples and then there are what we call
necessary inferences let me give you an
example of that in Mark
16:16 says uh he that believes and is
baptized shall be saved right that's
what it says in that text so we can kind
of conclude from that reading that we
are to uh if we're going to baptize
somebody they need to believe right he
that believes and is baptized but then
in Acts chap 2 and: 38 Peter said uh
repent and be baptized every one of you
he didn't say anything about belief but
we kind of conclude from that that
obviously you're supposed to uh baptize
people who believe and then acts 2: 38
you're supposed to baptize people who uh
have a change of heart they repented
right so we conclude those two together
and we decide that you need to believe
and repent to be truly baptized but the
the necessary inference from that that
we can clude is since a child cannot
believe nor can they repent that a child
is not a natural candidate for baptism
because everybody who is a Biblical
candidate for baptism must be able to
believe and must be able to repent
that's just from a couple of passages
that's what we call necessary inference
it is a valid form of study we use it
all the time those three principles
that's the reason the ni necessary
inference but basically God's
Commandments we do what he says we look
for Approved examples of what God wants
us to follow and then we look for
necessary inferences that are implied
that you can't miss those kind of things
it's really pretty simple but that's
only one method of studying and trying
to figure out what we ought to be doing
with our building okay so the next one a
little more complicated but it is
essential and it is a definite way of
trying to get to the root of what God
wants us to do and there are three
principles for matters of authority now
specific Authority in matters of church
practice are what we're trying to AR it
that c is great but it's limited on
certain levels and so to arrive at a
proper understanding of our Authority
for church buildings and the use of
church buildings we also need these
specific specific practical interpretive
methods that we are sometimes overlooked
the first one that's often overlooked is
the regulatory principle now what I'm
trying to say here let me let me back up
a little bit there are things uh people
have power over you uh there's a thing
called power and then there's a thing
called Authority those are not the same
thing quit thinking that power is
authority and authority is power that's
not true so power is might I'm have the
ability to force you to do what I want
you to do but that doesn't mean I have
the authority to do it Authority has to
do with legality and with the right by
everybody's understanding Jesus had the
authority to be the king of kings
because he is a descendant of David and
he literally is given to us directly
from God so he has the authority in he
all authority in heaven and on Earth
given directly because of that that's
not the same thing as being able to
crush you anybody could crush you a
leader can Crush you they may have power
so we need to understand what gives us
authority to do what we're doing so the
regulatory principle is the first
principle is really important and it is
basically it says this what is not
authorized in worship is forbidden in
worship you say well I don't I don't
think that's true well it's what's held
up in scripture I'm not only going to
use one I'm not getting into this really
deep today if you want to get into it
deeper with me I'd love to sit and talk
with you about it now have no problem
with you you want say I'd like to hear
more about that regulatory principle
okay sure we'll sit down I'll talk to
you all day long about it and give you
all the scriptures on it well let's just
go right here Leviticus chapter 10 is a
critical example of that uh naab and
abaho verse one of Leviticus 10 vers 1-2
and by the way it's all through
scripture verse one says then NAB and
abaho the sons of Aaron each took his
sensor and put fire in it put incense on
it and offered profane fire before the
Lord let me explain to you what had just
happened they are now uh initiating the
worship within the Tabernacle of God
it's never been used before it is the
fire fell out of Heaven to ignite the
altar it didn't come from men God did
not ignite that altar I mean man did not
ignite that altar God ignited that altar
right so just immediately after that na
AB andu the sons of Aaron each took his
sensor and put fire in it we don't know
where he got the fire but they didn't
get it off the altar put incense in it
and offered profane fire before the Lord
which he had not commanded them what did
they do wrong they simply did something
that they had not been told to do now
think about that just a second they did
something that they had not been told to
do in worship so fire went out from the
Lord and devoured them and they died
before the Lord so because that is
recognized all through scripture when
you do in worship that which you have
not been told to do you can get a heap
into a heap of trouble I mean burning up
is pretty serious business okay he
burned them up clearly in matters
regarding worshiping of the great God
the god that's beyond anything we've
ever imagined that's serious business
we're engaged right at this moment in
serious business you may take this
lightly but this is very serious
business that we're involved in so we're
not to go beyond what he authorizes
those that did have been killed just for
that Scholars agree that the New
Testament basically authorizes only five
acts of worship in the New Testament we
have been given five acts of worship
they are clearly spelled out in the New
Testament you can't deny that they're
there they're really there communion we
took communion a while ago did we not
Lord's Supper communion that's spelled
out the New Testament prayer have we get
engaged in prayer in this service
absolutely we've engaged in prayer
giving have we engaged in giving in this
service absolutely with singing have we
sung in this s yes how about studying
the word whether reading studying
teaching preaching God's word has that
been going on yeah it's going on right
in this moment so those are the five
acts that are clearly spelled out in the
New Testament for worship you want to
add to that you take your life into your
your own hands that's what happens so
what is not authorized such as
instrumental
music is forbidden because it's not
mentioned now you can say I don't agree
with that go for
it but you won't get burned up not using
an instrument because what has not been
commanded has gotten people in trouble
that's all there is to it that's all
there is to it so that's the SEC first
rle that's the regulatory principle I'll
show you how that applies in just a
moment critical in our life number two
then there's the normative principle
it's called normative because it's
pretty normal how is it normal well what
is not forbidden in daily life in
daytoday life if it hasn't been
forbidden by some moral teaching or some
specific commandment what happens in
your daily life is authorized well what
do you mean by that well Romans chapter
4 verse 15 says this because the law
brings about wrath for where there is no
law there is no transgression if God
hadn't specifically told you what you
have to do on Monday what you have to do
on Tuesday what you have to do on
Wednesday what you have to do at 12:00
what you have to do at 3:00 what you
have to do when you go to bed at night
if he specifically told you what you
have to do guess what there's no
rule there's no law except general
principles and so Romans 5 and: 13 says
For unto the law sin was in the world
but sin is not imputed where there is no
law William Barkley put it this way no
one can break a law which does not
exist you can't break a law if it isn't
there if there's no such thing as speed
limit laws you couldn't break the speed
limit law right if there's no stop sign
law you couldn't break the stop sign law
clearly a lot of people break it but no
you couldn't so the truth is now so
let's go back to that if you have no
command you have no approved example and
you have no clear necessary inference
what do you have you have what we call
Liberty so you use charity and you
express Liberty to allow people to do
kind of what they think they ought to do
when they want to do it it's their
business then so we have no specific C
ni so what is not forbidden is
authorized that's our daily life and you
say well I don't believe that's the way
we conduct our daily life you conduct
your daily life like that whether you
want to admitt it or not everything you
do you do basically that way if it isn't
forbidden you do it you do whatever you
think is right and you do it every day
but that's not the Only Rule so
basically we have this regulatory
principle what what is not authorized in
worship is forbidden but that's not our
daily life in our daily life what is not
forbidden in daily life having got a
direct statement said you can't do that
we do it it's
authorized but that's not all that
guides us and this is critical because
this one maybe guides you in a way that
you don't realize it it's called The
expediency principle and here it says
basically this what is authorized or
what is not forbidden may be expedient
or it may not be
expedient so you mean it can be
authorized and acceptable and not be
acceptable that's right it can be
unacceptable and yet be acceptable yep
what all right hang on here's the way it
goes 1 Corinthians 10:23 all things are
lawful for me wow that's a big list all
things are lawful for me but not all
things are helpful
all things are lawful for me but not all
things edify what's that mean I mean
it's just not expedient it's not a good
thing to do uh I'll get down in the
specifics of that so the Authority for a
church building for example let me see
just having a church building forget
what kind we're building right now just
having a church building where do you
get the Authority for that you see there
is no command to build a church building
in the New Testament zero
it's not there so where do you get it
it's based upon a summary of all the
arguments we've just looked at so
there's no command there's no approved
example wait a second I thought you did
think cnis there's no command there's no
approved example well where's the
necessary inference well there is a
necessary inference and let me explain
to you the necessary inference the
necessary inference Is Not the Only Rule
okay first of all the Reg atory
principle has no bearing whatsoever
because it's not a worship service when
you build in the building so it's not a
worship service so the normative
principle kicks in what's a normative
principle if it is forbidden it's
acceptable right in normal life but what
did he ask us to do and how do we try to
fulfill that that's the necessary
inference thing so it's a combination of
that and the other rule expediencies so
necessary inference normative principle
and expediency those are the rules let
me give them to you now in Leviticus 23:
1-3 it commanded in the Old Testament
that they would have a holy convocation
or a holy assembly a worship assembly
every Sabbath day in all their dwellings
the problem was that on the Sabbath day
a lot of people used to think they had
to go all the way back to the temple but
you could only make 2,000 steps that's
the Sabbath Day's Journey so you
couldn't go all the way back to the
temple people couldn't get there they
lived all over the country but they were
supposed to have some kind of holy
meeting
well what were they supposed to do well
I guess they gathered under a tree in
somebody's house at first but you know
what it got cold and it got rainy and so
what did they do they decided that they
needed a place to meet and so they
inferred they concluded a necessary
inference if we're going to meet
regularly we need a place to meet and
they built them and it's in the
scriptures psalm 74:4 and: 8 Leviticus 4
Luke 4:16 Jesus attended the synagogues
we know that they had these meaning
places and they were burned in the Old
Testament by the Invaders Hebrews
chapter 10:25 then then we come to this
conclusion if we're not to forsake the
assembling of ourselves together if we
are to assemble so much so that we have
actually talked about we got to have
communion together if like 1 Corinthians
14:23 that we are to be all together in
one one place if we're going to do that
we have to have a place to do that now
you can have here's the rule there is no
rule we have to have a place you we've
inferred we have to have a place
biblically speaking we absolutely have
the authority the normative principles
at place this is not a worship service
we can build what we think we need
wherever we think we need it and you say
or we could rent it or we could meet
under a tree I've done all of them I
promise you you could do them all you
could beet any anywhere you feel like
you need to do it and you meet that way
so that's the conclusion so what is not
forbidden is authorized and the
expedience and principle says what is
not authorized what is not forbidden may
be expedient or it may not be expedient
so you might not can afford it for that
matter a good way to explain the
expediency thing one last time is Mark
16:15 it says go into all the world
preach the gospel of every creature
right says that let's say that you
decided you were going to do uh Mission
work in Paraguay South America right
you're going to do that could you walk
to
Paraguay yeah would that be somebody
need to send you money and you're going
to walk to par you can do it I wouldn't
recommend it you probably get killed on
the way but it you might can do it so
you're going to walk down there is that
the way and then walk home every so many
years and
Report well you could ride a
horse could you ride a horse of course
you can Norm principal kicked in yeah
you can ride a horse uh could you ride
in a jeep sure just said go right didn't
say how to go just go could could you
could you go on a boat yeah could you
take a train yeah could could you take a
plane yeah I'm thinking the plane's the
most expedient way to get to Paraguay so
the point is it's the most expedient
thing so just because you can do
something doesn't mean it's expedient
and that you should do it so the
question is a lot of what you you see
around you is is this is the expedient
way to get done what we've been
commanded to do by the Lord there's your
question and that's where we are so what
is also biblically smart well what are
we talking about when we talk about
smart we talk about highq we talk about
mentally gifted we talk about somebody
on the Spectrum we talk about somebody
clever we talk about a wise guy we talk
about somebody who has a lot of
awareness we talk about somebody who's
quick witted we talking about someone
who's intuitive insightful what do we
mean by wise or trained or inspired or
learned or scholarly or well read or
well educated or knowledgeable or
understandable or pred or wise what do
we mean by all that here's what we need
to mean it's what the Bible says about
it that's it would it be smart to ask
ourselves if we complete the series of
buildings what Biblical principle would
guide us in that construction and I'm
trying to cover that now but now I want
to cover it from a different angle I
want to talk about now the idea of the
simp little ideas and we're almost done
we're almost done did the hardest thing
you've gotten through the hard part of
the lesson
okay got through the hard part let's get
to the simple part wisdom
builds through wisdom a house is
built wisdom is a Constructor and a
creator of our needs and our spaces
wisdom builds it builds a kingdom builds
a country it builds a church it builds a
home it builds builds alive the wise man
built Psalm 1365 wisdom made the heavens
s Proverbs 3 wisdom founded the Earth
Proverbs 9 wisdom hath built her house
Proverbs 14 the wise woman builds her
house in our case it is taken a combined
discussion of hundreds and hundred
hundreds and hundreds of hours by this
congregation to get us where we are at
least right now little less where we're
going so to construct and to create our
needed space we need wisdom that builds
here's the truth though is wisdom builds
when you're sitting on your rear end and
doing nothing you're not showing wisdom
churches must be about getting it
done get it
done build the kingdom
build the kingdom number
two understanding
establishes through wisdom a house is
built and by understanding it is
established understanding is a discerner
and delivers our needs in firmness so
when it says establishes it means to
create a firm situation so whether we're
talking about the kingdom or the country
or we're talking about the church or our
home are we talking about the individual
believer what understanding does is it
makes you firm you run into people who
are like the wind and they nearly want
to quit God every other day they're not
established they're not established they
don't have understanding Psalm 78: 69
the Earth which he has established
forever Psalm 93 the world is
established so that it cannot be moved
Psalm 105 103 the Lord has established
his throne in heaven let me ask you
think the Throne of God is fixed or you
think it could just move any day now
somebody could overthrow it uh Proverbs
3:19 by understanding he established the
heavens the stars that are out there do
you think they're just going to fall
down any minute or do you think that
they're affirm and established where
they are yeah the wise man built his
house on a
rock established
it that's what a church is to do that's
what you're to do with your family
that's what we're to do with our world
our own life is make it firm in our case
it will take the
combined understanding that will make us
pay for it it's not going to come easy
it's not cheap the building that we're
building is not cheap we've already
spent somewhere in the neighborhood of
seven7
million in determin and discernment our
firmness can come if we have understand
understanding so it's not just wisdom
that we need we need understanding
everybody that's wise doesn't have
understanding everybody has
understanding is not wise understanding
creates a
firmness wisdom gets you going makes you
build number
three so knowledge
fills through wisdom a house is built
and by understanding is established by
knowledge the rooms are filled with all
pressure and pleasant riches knowledge
is a finisher and a
furnisher of us and the needs that we
have Proverbs 2 Verse 6 from his mouth
come knowledge it's talking about God
you want to have
knowledge if you want to be filled with
knowledge you got to get it close to his
mouth proverbs 10 store up
knowledge Proverbs 12 whoever loves
instruction loves
knowledge you don't like going to bible
class
do you hear me I hope hope I may be
offended
somebody you don't like going to bible
class Proverbs 24:5 a man of knowledge
increases
strength if you want to make a
strong Kingdom you have to establish it
right that's your understanding but if
you want to feel it in a way that it can
keep going
it needs to know something the kingdom
needs to know the church needs to know
something the home needs to know stuff
the Christian needs to know stuff the
wise man built his house upon a rock
that's right what did it say about that
before that he said that the wise men
hears these sayings of mine and does
them that's the wise man that builds his
house upon the rock and then when the
rain come the floods come and the winds
blow it doesn't
fall because it has some information
it's building its life
on in our case it will take the
knowledge of the Bible teachers to fill
us the idea that I'm going to give you
enough CU I'm not I'm sure many of you
have kind of faded and come and gone
some of you asleep probably right now so
you faded and come I know I'm not
keeping your attention the full- time so
I know that comes and goes I know about
every 5 minutes I lose contact with
what's being said and I'm waling
somewhere Never Never Land and and then
I'll come back and I'm like what was he
talking about again and then especially
if Keegan's preaching so it just goes on
and like that so but my point is simple
and it's not really a message about
Keegan although that was fun but uh is
the idea that we need to be filled with
knowledge so the the lesson has really
been a simple lesson today it may seem
like so I wanted to lay the groundwork
so you understand biblically what we try
as a church we try to do we try to
follow God's commands his approved
examples and his necessary inferences
also as a church we try to follow
matters of authority so it comes to
regulatory principle especially about
worship what isn't specifically
authorized is forbidden In Worship the
norm principle day today if it isn't
forbidden it's allowed and then of
course the expediency principle just
because it's allowed doesn't mean it's
expedient we need to do what works best
for everybody so but the three qualities
here that we're really looking at that
really stick out to me is when we try to
build with wisdom understanding and
knowledge we need to understand that
wise people
build understanding people people with
understanding make things establish and
firm where they don't just fall over
easily and then people with knowledge
fill us with knowledge that makes a
strong church we don't make the rules
but if you want to be successful if you
want to be successful at whatever you do
you follow the rules you want to ignore
the rules you live to regret it there
was a Christian
alall herder I think is his name it's
kind of an odd name let me get to it he
was the 59th governor of the state of
Massachusetts some of you may know this
guy from 1953 to 1957 that's all it was
this was four years he was and he was
trying to run for a second term which he
didn't make but he's trying to make it
in the second term right to run for
governor again and he'd been working all
day long y'all seen campaigners they
work like crazy they really do if you
wanted to run for office it's just about
kgy sorry it's really a hard thing to do
so he's he'd been out trying to get
votes all day long long and and now he
he gone past lunch he hadn't had lunch
had no lunch he's starving now it's
about the middle of the afternoon he's
going to a church barbecue you know
trying to rub shoulders with everybody
and he goes to his church barbecue and
he's hungry he's no longer hungry he's
hungry I mean he's really hungry he's a
pretty good siiz fell and so he gets in
line and he goes down the line to get
his food they're dipping it out to him
he's not getting a pick they're dipping
it out to him and so he gets one piece
of chicken and he looks up at the lady
and he and he says uh I'm real hungry
could I have a second piece of chicken
she says no only one piece of chicken
per
person said ma'am I'm really hungry
could I have two says no I've been told
to give out one piece of chicken and you
got your one piece of
chicken he said ma'am and he was a kind
of a mild guy and he didn't really like
to pull Authority he said ma'am I don't
know if you know this but I'm the
governor of this state and I want to
know another piece of chicken she says I
hear you I didn't know you're the
governor she said do you know who I am
and he said no ma'am said I'm the
chicken
lady you get one piece of chicken move
on
Mister God's in
control we need to try to do what he
says the way he wants us to do it
there's a statement in Psalm 127:1
unless the Lord builds the house they
labor in vain that do build it unless
the Lord build a house they labor in
vain that do build it we're trying to do
you may not realize this how critical it
is to all of us but we are trying the
best we can to do what's biblical and
yet reach out in ways we've never tried
before you'll hear more about this in
the coming weeks if you're not right
with the Lord though the invitation is
always available you can repent of your
sins confess the name of Christ and be
baptized even now and we'll do
everything we can to make sure that
you're you complete your obedience right
now as we stand and as we
sing
