here's a puzzle for you there was a
Village Blacksmith that hired a a new
Young Apprentice so he's brand new on
the job he's The Apprentice of the
blacksmith and the blacksmith instructed
the young man he said when I take this
horseshoe out of the fire I'll lay it on
the Anvil when I nod my head you hit it
with the
hammer the pr did exactly what he was
told now he's the new Village
Blackman some of you will get that
tomorrow
anyway disciple might better be
translated and and I only ran into this
recently and I never thought about it
but probably we tend to translate it
like student and that's really just too
simple it's really probably if we were
really translating it today a better
word might be an apprentice and Jesus
calls us to more than just a casual
relationship with him he calls us to be
disciples or these apprentices of his
and being an apprentice means more than
just listening to something he said once
upon a time rather if you are an
apprentice of Christ a true disciple you
were with him daily day and night you
became more and more like him listen
listening to everything he had to say
doing what he did saying things like he
said you know we're all plagiarizers
everything we say came from somebody
else so I mean none of it is original
with me nothing you've ever said or
thought is really original with you we
all have been a culmination of all we've
been taught all we've heard all of our
life the 12 apostles or missionaries
were really 12 apprentices of Christ and
there have been many great apprentices
you've heard about many of them there's
s that was The Apprentice of Leonard o d
Vinci obviously he was an apprentice uh
painter there have been many Apprentice
tayor welders that were famous uh
there's been advertising apprentices
I've got a list down there fashion
Apprentice there was one named Karen
Millan there's just been all of these
Apprentice chefs you've heard of that so
you you're trying to be the chef and
learn how it's really hard
apprenticeships are hard and yet there
have been some great apprenticeships in
this world and there are many occupati
which have discipleship or
apprenticeships maybe more than you knew
there were let me give you a list kind
of as an idea there in
2016 United States had all active at
that point I don't know what the number
is today but at that point in
2016 there were over
500,000
apprenticeships going on in the United
States
21,000 registered apprenticeship
programs going on in the United States
that's a quite a lot what kind of things
need an apprenticeship well there's a
lot of them a boiler maker Carpenters
electricians elevator installers and
repairers glazers insulation workers
mechanical workers uh iron workers
masonry Mill RS musical instrument
repair and Tuners need appren plumbers
pip Fitters there are many many jobs out
there you don't really need a college
education sometimes to do these you just
need to come and be willing to learn
from people who are very good at it in
fact this has become very common today
in even the field of computing there are
application developments cyber sec
working for in the cloud or platform
engineering that really only require
these uh St studies that doesn't require
a four five six year degree you can just
go for a time and learn and then do it
so there are many many apprentices and
to fulfill any apprenticeship any
discipleship into any career there are
things that you need to learn to do to
develop to be willing to learn and that
applies to Christ as well
for example they suggest that you be
reliable and punctual if you're going to
go into an apprentice program you need
to be enthusiastic up without the task
that you've been assigned you need to be
willing to learn and be positive about
the work you need to be friendly and get
to know all the people and all their
names of the people you're going to work
around you need to be inquisitive and
courageous by asking any questions that
you can because you need to learn the
skill you need to be positive uh of your
apprenticeship by finding out as much as
you can even when they're not teaching
you you need to be organized in your
time and schedule time for the steps
that it's going to take for you to learn
this material you need to be attentive
to all your mentors and the knowledge
that they have and their experiences
that they're sharing with you you need
to be independent and be proactive in
learning well beyond anything that they
might have reading other uh books and
manuals and then you be a a notetaker
and that would be for us maybe bringing
your Bibles and holding a Bible and
having a Bible you really can't
underline anything on your cell phone
and be a resourceful gatherer of
resources if you're going to be a
particular Apprentice in a particular
field there are tools for that field
everything's like that what do you think
might be some of the tools of a
Christian it might be not you know if
you're a com Chef you have to have maybe
some special knives well I'm thinking a
good old Bible is a good place to start
okay and if you don't don't have one and
all you got electronic version of one I
would highly recommend you get a paper
version the battery never goes flat it's
really important so we well except it's
always flat but anyway we are not
discussing the five steps today of
Salvation we're not discussing the five
uh steps of worship we're discussing the
five steps of spiritual growth for a
disciple and you may doubt these you may
think that there aren't five but you're
going to see there are five steps that
we all take if we grow and if we mature
if we develop so if you haven't
accomplished all five of these you have
work to work on okay and some of them
you started on and you could do better
on okay but these are the five that are
obvious that are so obvious that it is
encased in the meaning of the word okay
here we go so number
one the first step of spiritual growth
for tode Le or an apprentice of Christ
is to become a saint from the master
there's no point in discussing this if
you're not a saint now somebody says
well a saint something special no Saints
used over and over again in the New
Testament it's a baptized believer is
what a saint is it's not somebody that's
performed three Miracles that's not in
the Bible that's just made up somebody
came up with that stuff in the Bible you
become a saint when you become
Sanctified in our text it says go
therefore and make disciples a disciple
is the saint Go Make Disciples of all
Nations baptizing them in the name of
the father and the Son and the Holy
Spirit had been baptized you're not a
saint according to that thinking Acts
chapter 2 and: 38 it says this then
Peter said to them repent and let every
one of you be baptized in the name of
Jesus Christ for the remission of your
sins say you've been Sanctified and you
shall receive the gift of the Holy
Spirit the Holy Spirit comes to dwell
within you because you've been
Sanctified so Saints are the Saved
individuals and over and over again
that's how it's used in the New
Testament it is not used to specify a
special group of people you are the
Saints and if you're not the Saints then
there are no Saints that's the way it
works in 2 Timothy 2 and verse 211 it
says if anyone cleanses himself that's
sanctification he will be a vessel for
Honor Sanctified and useful for the
master prepared for every good work so
to be prepared to go further in this
whole idea of being a disciple you must
first be Sanctified That's What Makes
You useful that's becoming a saint
that's when you're saved that's when you
believe in Jesus confess Jesus repent of
your sins or baptized for the remission
of your sins the Holy Spirit comes to
live within you that is when you become
a saint so become a saint of Christ
you're saved Sanctified that's the first
step that's the number one step you're
not a disciple and certainly not an
apprentice of Christ until you take that
baptism step number
two that is the second step of spiritual
growth for a disciple or an apprentice
of Christ is to become a servant to the
master now some people skip over this
they don't realize this but basically a
fundamental meaning of a disciple is a
servant to the one that they are that's
teaching that's true in an
apprenticeship by the way you do
whatever the guy that's telling you in
The Apprentice you do that you don't do
that you're out the door I promise you
that's the way it will work in Second
Kings 3 and verse 11 it says Elisha the
son of sapath is here who poured water
on the hands of Elijah what does that
mean it means he did what Elijah needed
him to do and that means help him even
wash his hands whatever he needed him to
do he served Elisha served Elijah until
finally Elijah was gone to heaven and
then Elisha took over in Luke 22:8 it
says and he sent Peter and John saying
go did you hear all that he sent Peter
and John saying go and prepare the
Passover for us that we may eat you got
stuff to do go do it uh did he beg and
plead them please uh would you please go
do us all a favor no he sent them that's
what you do when you're an apprentice
you serve if you AR willing to serve
you're not an apprentice if you're not
willing to serve you're not a disciple
Luke
19:30 go into the village opposite you
where as you enter you will find a cult
tide on which no one has ever sat loose
it and bring it here what you just tell
me to go get an animal and bring it over
here yeah if the Lord tells you to do
that that's what you do because why
because you're to be a servant every
disciple one of the steps is to learn to
serve we have a Fellowship meal one of
the things you have to learn to do is
help amen we have an event one of the
things you have to learn to do is help
somebody needs to help and you don't
need to be begged to help we need T
teachers you don't need to be begged to
be a teacher step up and say I'm willing
help right amen just you just help
that's what a disciple does so becoming
a servant of Christ serves tables and
it's step number two it's one of the
earliest steps you learn
and that is if you and by the way if
you're too big to serve you're too small
to be a true
disciple okay so they did it in the
limited commission the 72 that went out
just the uh people of Israel and then
later in the Great Commission they were
sent they were sent they were told to go
we've been told to go you need to be
willing to take that rule number
three the third step of spiritual growth
for a disciple or a prce of Christ has
become a student this is the one you've
heard so much about a student a learner
of the master in Luke 6 and: 40 it says
this the disciple is not above his
teacher but everyone who is perfected or
perfectly trained will be like his
teacher that means we need to be taught
that's why you're sitting here that's
why you go to Bible classes that's why
you have your Bibles at home that's why
you sit down and read your Bible we are
trying to be taught of the master right
we're trying to truly be disciples and
that's a critical part of it and here's
something I think you need to pick up on
in Acts chapter 1 when it describes what
Jesus did it says these are the things
he both began to
do and to teach notice the order which
he does stuff he did it and then he
taught it you got that we we tend to do
it other way we teach it and then we try
to learn to do it okay that sounds about
like preacher right so he did it and
then and he taught it listen to Luke 11
verse1 as he was praying when he ceased
one of his disciples said to him Lord
teaches to pray as John also taught his
disciples they saw him praying they
heard him praying they said could you
teach us to pray like that I'd like to
learn to pray like you pray so do and
then teach by the way if we're going to
be a student we need to learn that
method do it then teach it right it's
very similar to the medical thing you
know see one do one teach one right very
similar John 13:15 for I have given you
an example that you should do as I have
done to you so we need to be a student
that then copies in our apprenticeship
right and so becoming a student of
Christ is learning how and what he
taught and what he did so step three is
to do and teach so you need to learn
then you do it so you see one you do one
you teach one and you'll be a disciple
or an apprentice of Christ number
next this is the one that you will not
like the fourth step of spiritual growth
for a disciple or an apprentice of
Christ is to become a
sufferer Luke
9:23 then he said to them all if anyone
desires to come after me let him deny
himself and take up his cross daily and
follow me I want tell you a cross is not
about going on a vacation it's not about
a
beach it's not about a
cruise it's about nails and
whips it's about
pain in John 21: 18-9 19 I listen
someone teach about this the other day
and it really hit me hard when you were
younger talking to Peter when you were
younger you GED yourself and walked
where you wish this is the message by
the way this is the message to you no
matter who you are this is what's going
to happen to you if you live to be old
are you listening what he said to Peter
is true of you and me right listen to it
when you were younger you GED yourself
and walked where you wish you went
anywhere you wanted to go you were young
you could do what you
wanted but when you were
old you will stretch out your hands and
another will gge you help you dress and
carry you where you do not wish that's
coming to a theater near you and me they
on to
happen now neither
persecution nor life stuff sufferings
are
chosen nobody chooses it we do not
choose to
suffer we don't have a choice about it
suffering is
coming we do get to choose the attitude
with which we will face it in James
chapter 1: 2 through 4 it says this
count it all joy when you fall into
various
trials knowing that the testing of your
faith produces patience and it's perfect
work that you may be perfect and
complete lacking nothing it helps you to
develop now listen to me not all your
suffering in this life will you learn
from it in this life well what's that
suffering for because sometimes we
suffer and we just die
and right what's that far that's for
them around you
that's their part of that suffering
because it pain is not the only
suffering that's physical sometimes
Pain's worse up here watching somebody
you love in
pain and that's sometimes the worst pain
so you're thinking because your it was
your physical pain that that's it no
that's not it unless you're an island
other people are suffering because of
your
suffering the point is is that it
actually can produce Joy see Jesus
learned obedience by the things which he
suffered here's the
truth it is obedience if I do it because
I want to do
it no obedience is when you don't feel
like
it and you do good that's growth when
you feel horrible and you still do good
listen to acts 9: 15 and 16 but the Lord
said to him go for he is a chosen vessel
talking about Saul who would be named
Paul go for he's a chosen vessel of mine
to Bear my name before the Gentiles oh
but he's a persecutor go he will bear my
name before the Gentiles the Kings and
the children of Israel verse 16 for I
will show him how many things he must
suffer for my name's sake you see Jesus
suffered if you follow Jesus you also
will suffer and here's the truth some of
it would be persecution but a lot of it
would be just this
world and you either learn from it or
others learn from it and you see that
there's a message in it we don't want
this is not a lesson I'm telling you
nobody sitting there going boy I love
this part I want more of this not a one
of us not a one of us including me not a
one of us but it is
true it is true becoming a sufferer with
Christ is step four and we Face maybe
persecution with or for Christ or just
life sufferings of either our pain or
the pain of the person near us and we
try to behave with an attitude that
shows the proper attitude that's the
discipline we learn in that step and it
is the toughest step here but then
there's the final step which is a lot
more positive than what we just looked
at the fifth step of spiritual growth
for a disciple or an apprentice of
Christ is to become a sender like the
master I wearing a South African tie
this morning I'm fixing to go to Africa
y'all know that April you know I'm going
to Africa I'm going to South Africa to
visit some of the works we're involved
in and some of the places where we
started some Churches and then we're
going to go up to Zimbabwe Lord willing
and see partners for Africa he's been
here Dorian Flynn you all know we're
going to check on it make sure it's
really there it all really happens that
you know if you expect you must inspect
so we're going to take a look see what
all is going on uh becoming a sinder see
it's a full circle if you look at your
text I don't you see that there's a full
circle we make have you seen it look at
it again Matthew chapter 28 now I'm
going to read it again verses 18 through
20 and Jesus came and spoke to them
saying all authority has been given to
me in heaven and on earth now he had all
authority we're never going to have all
authority but we will attain to a
position if we stay a disciple a long
time we will attain to a position of
authority to do what what he just did
verse 19 go therefore and Make Disciples
of all Nations he sent people baptizing
them in the name of the father and the
Son and the Holy Spirit teaching them so
you have to train them to train others
but then you send them out teaching them
to observe all things that I have
commanded you and lo I'm with you always
even at the End of the Age Amen in Luke
8:3 just in case you don't think this is
a Biblical concept of supporting the
work that goes or sending people out
this is in the ministry of Jesus it says
in joyanne the wife of kza Herod Steward
and Susanna and many others Who provided
for him that is Jesus and his Apostles
from their
substance that's what you do you move
Beyond you either go yourself or you
send others not everybody can go in
Philippians 4:6 it says for even in
thessalonica you sent Aid so you can't
go but you sent Aid once again for my
Necessities becoming a sender like
Christ was see when you begin to be like
Christ then you imitate him exactly what
he did he sent them out you should be a
sender out you should encourage people
to go you should send them with your
money you should help people go wherever
they're going to go because everybody
can't go everywhere everybody can't go
to Honduras every body can't go this or
that or the other becoming a sinner like
Christ is the fifth step as teachers as
earners and as older or who are sick and
can no longer go you send others out
just like Christ did to make disciples
and apprenticeship of Christ so that's
it those are the steps that's what
disciples of Christ go through to become
complete mature Disciples of Christ
there it is we become a saint
then we learn to be a servant not just
to ourselves but everybody around us we
then become a student of the scriptures
and of Christ Jesus and then we become a
sufferer the one step none of us want to
be but in that process we learn and we
grow and we become closer to him and
then at some point we go you know I
think I'd rather go on and be with him
then keep Suffering The Way I Am and
that hits too and then we are a sender I
can't go anymore but here's
$5 becoming a disciple or an apprentice
of Christ is not what many think it is
it's not all that simple it's not just
attaining skills like 1 Corinthians 13
ver1 I have the ability to talk like
this or I have the ability to do this or
what that's not all there is to it it's
not just attaining to Bible knowledge
well I know a lot of Bible I could do te
this and I can teach that 1 Corinthians
13:2 you can know a lot and still not be
where you
are understand all kinds of things and
still not be the disciple Apprentice
you're supposed to be or it's not about
making sacrifices it's not all about
suffering 1 Corinthians 13:3 I can get
my body to be burned it's not all about
that either it's about all of this it's
not simple oh I did one thing oh I come
to church I listen so I'm a student
there I am I'm a disciple I'm an
apprentice it's a little more
complicated than that and it's more
becoming a disciple or an apprentice of
Christ is about deeper
ideas it's about becoming
him you see if you're an apprentice The
Apprentice of Leonardo da Vinci wanted
to be Leonardo D Vinci right that's it
you become the person it's about doing
it all for them no longer for me I'm not
living for me I'm working for them and
that's when you find out what the
greatest points of Life are is when
you're no longer doing it for you and
you say get away Rex dton I want to be
for them right that's when you get there
you don't get there very often though
right it's for the world it's for God
it's about making the word of Christ
become
flesh about making this become
this and it's not a simple thing to do I
like what Carl bar said he Swiss
reformed Theologian he said the word
became
flesh and then through theologians it
became words
again yeah I'm afraid that's what's
happened Lloyd Alexander wrote a book
called Taran Wanderer back in 1999 Taran
in his story is an orphan who doesn't
know who his parents are never know
doesn't know his Heritage nothing about
it but he has these visions that make
maybe he's born of royalty but you know
they just kicked him out because not
everybody that knew that wanted it to be
known right so that's what he has hopes
of and so what the story tells about how
he goes through three different
apprentices learns all these different
skills right he goes through Apprentice
after apprenticeship learns these skills
makes his way develops
himself and then at some point all of a
sudden it's not that important to be
somebody because he was born from
somebody he says as for my parentage it
makes little difference true kinship has
nothing to do with Blood Ties however
strong they may be it's not about your
mama and your daddy
anymore that's about who you're
becoming
margary Williams biano wrote a little
book called the velvetine
rabbit you kids I commend it to
you it's about a stuffed rabbit who
desires to become real let me read a
portion real isn't how you are made said
the Skin Horse there's another toy in
the
cabinet real isn't how you're made said
the Skin Horse it's a thing that happens
to you when a child loves you for a long
long long
time not just to play with but really
loves you then you become
real does it hurt asked the
rabbit sometimes said the skin hor for
he was always truthful when you're real
you don't mind being
hurt does it happen all at once like
being wound up he asks or bit by
bit it doesn't happen all at once said
the Skin Horse you
become it takes a long
time that's why it doesn't happen often
to people who break
easily or of sharp
edges or have to be kept
carefully generally by the time you're
real most of your hair has been loved
off that's
obvious and and your eyes drop out and
you get loose in the joints and very
shabby but these things don't matter at
all because once you're real you can't
be ugly except to people who don't
understand are you a real
Apprentice I know you claim discipleship
260 times in the Bible it's got to be a
word that applies to me
but are you a real Apprentice of
Jesus are you a saint wonderful are you
a
servant are you a
student are you a
sufferer are you a
sinder place to begin is be a saint hear
the gospel believe it repent of your
sins confess Christ be baptized
take the next step if you need to come
come while we stand while we s
