before I really get into the lesson just
some thoughts I've been
having I want you to know that in this
series The distinctive plea of the
Church of Christ it's not a sermon on
the name Church of
Christ it's not a series on that
name
um I believe it was said very well a
rose by any other name would smell as
sweet
wasn't the two families that kept Rome
Romeo and Juliet apart or the names of
those
families
people kept them
apart and a name can be
perverted for
example God's name is not Jehovah at
least you don't say it that way
uh YH wh is his
name and I will not pronounce
it I just
refuse um Hashem is a good way to refer
to
him which means the
name I think there needs to be a greater
respect for God
period but particularly about the name
for example Jesus Christ Jesus was never
called Jesus in his life and he
certainly wasn't called Christ in his
life where he lived he would have been
called Yeshua
hamashiach which means the Savior the
Messiah you know you can call a cow's
tail a leg but a cow really only has
four legs just because you use the right
verbage does does mean you're saying the
truth in the New Testament if we were
going to pick a name so Church of Christ
is not the
name it's never said to be the name by
the way Christian is not the name either
never said to
be by the way disciple is not the name
never said to be I don't know if you've
noticed it but there wasn't a place in
the scriptures that said this is the
name not in
there closest thing to that is the use
the term the way it is actually used as
a name for the followers of Christ about
eight times in the scriptures all
through the book of Acts we won't get
into that but Church of Christ appears
one time in the scriptures and it's not
in that text declared as the name that
must go on the sign out front of the
building where all the the Brethren
Worship the
Lord it's just not
true and if you use Isaiah 62 and verse
two to indicate that Christian was
somehow becoming the name you've
perverted Isaiah 62:2 because Isaiah
62:2 says that there would be a new name
in the the new name would
be
married I never heard anybody call the
church
married well I got married on the sign
out there so it's not saying
that I just think there needs to be a
respect for the name and let me explain
to you what I mean by that I I believe
in picking up coins that just says the
word God on it not because I'm that
tight even though I'm pretty tight it's
not that it's because I don't think you
should leave the word God in the dirt
okay I think that's
true but let me tell you where I go with
this my father's name my daddy cuz I
didn't call him dad I called him daddy
I'm from
Alabama okay called him
daddy my daddy who's been dead now 30
something nearly 40
years before he was not soone when you
would respect when I was young but he
became a
Christian his name was unusual his name
was
bule braxon Dutton by the way I'm not on
the lesson yet it's just all
introductory his name was bule braon
Dutton in my entire life I never walked
up to him and said hey
bule I never
would ever
I respected him too much even to this
day if if we meet in heaven I promise
you I'm not going up to him and say hey
bule how you
doing
no I'll say Hey
Dad it's good to see
you
Daddy what I'm suggesting to you is Aba
is
good father is good
dad is even
good be careful about the way you throw
around the name of the Lord and be
careful what you claim for it the
distinctive play of the Church of Christ
is to be United by the word and to be
United by the name and unity is worthy
and it's worthy of The Plea that we're
making I gave these last week I want you
to see them again I'm going to repeat
this I do not pray for these alone but
also for those who will believe in me
through their word that they all may be
one as you father are in me and I in you
that they also may be one in us that the
world may believe that you sent me we
are to be one we're United and we should
be United but not everybody who claims
the name is trying to be United and
uniting is a worthy goal because Paul
preached it 1 Corinthians 1:10 I exhort
you Brethren by the name of our Lord
Jesus Christ that you all agree and that
there be no divisions among you but you
be made complete in the same mind in the
same judgment by the name of our Lord
Jesus Christ I'm appealing to you to be
United I think it's a worthy
goal it's a worthy goal that we should
make it our goal not all division is bad
I said this last time be aware of the
tyranny of your thought your idea of a
utopian Unity be scared of your idea of
making the United States of America
absolutely United you should fear that
but people don't they want it United
along their way of thinking which is
dangerous there are good reasons for
linguistical divisions because God saw
that we needed to be divided in Genesis
11 I'm not getting into that there are
good reasons for doctrinal divisions
Luke 12 and: 51 do you suppose that I
came to give peace on Earth I tell you
not at all but rather division Jesus
brought much division to this
world there are good reasons for
reformational division whether people
like it or not there was a really good
reason to pull away from Catholicism
when you look at the Spanish Inquisition
and you look at the Reformation move you
begin to realize after 30 to 300,000
people are killed over that whole thing
maybe that wasn't a good thing that kind
of unity all Unity is not necessarily
good there are good reasons for ethnical
divisions and by that what I mean is
this idea that I should align myself
with my ethnic group is
ridiculous I didn't choose it I happen
to be white and
Indian that is who I am American Indian
excuse me
that's who I
am but I don't just run around with
white Indian
people I don't just hang with Indians I
don't just hang with white
people that'll get you in trouble Nazi
party use that killed about six million
Jews over that thing see most religious
folks scare me a little by not observing
the danger let me go back
they scare me about not observing the
danger of this Unity thing that
everybody thinks we've got to have in
the United
States you scare me a little bit they
seem to think that we should all want
Christian
nationalism they seem to think that we
should have a perfect faith-based
country they seem to think their church
Faith would of course be the
faith I don't know where they assume
that you might not want that as much as
you think I mean which church Faith is
it going to be what if you don't agree
with
them prayer in school may lead your
faith to being
squashed it was for me because my school
ignored the law and had preachers of
their persuasion in there regularly and
women speaking and praying
and telling me what I ought to think in
my Public School in
Alabama and so I chose not to bow my
head I chose not to be a part of their
Agape groups I chose not to listen to
their
speeches and they looked down on me for
it the First Amendment says Congress
shall make no law respecting an
establish lishment of religion or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof
there's the point that I
want I just want to be able to worship
what we want anybody else would me on
that I and if you get what you want are
you if you want this Unity thing
religious
unity on a political scale be aware what
if another church thinks our church is a
cult to be removed and by the way that
is very common view of the Churches of
Christ that we are a cult and we should
be
silenced do you want that in
control Daniel 4:17 the most high rules
in the Kingdom of men and gives it to
whomever he wills and sets over it the
lowest of men so whoever wins this
election the lowest of
men or you need evidence for that you
ever heard of God named
Nimrod how about the Pharaohs how about
Nebuchadnezzar because they were plural
how about the
shamers how about the Grecian Kings how
about the herodians how about the Roman
Caesars how about the Russian Zars how
about the stalins how about the Hitlers
how about the Poots how about the miles
how about the Nikolai chesu family how
about the Kadafi family how about the
Saddam Hussein family how about the
mulas I could go down this list for an
hour have you not noticed that most of
the people who get in power aren't good
people and you think we're going to get
United in a world that's fallen over our
faith and everybody's going to agree and
line up and it's going to be perfect I
think you need to rethink that just a
minute the distinctive plea of the
Church of Christ and let us be United by
the
name now that does not mean that we're
going to be United perfectly if we took
a poll around this Auditorium right now
I guarantee you there's differences of
opinion about quite a few things have
you read Romans 14 1 Corinthians chapter
8 1 Corinthians chapter 10 that was to
be expected that there would be
diversity but there are people sometimes
in the church even in the Church of
Christ who would have you just line up
exactly and if you don't you're
out that's
dangerous CU it'll destroy us so based
on biblical ideas let me walk you down a
path that is biblical and that fits this
concept and may help you have a better
attitude toward other people and I hope
that's what it does unity that's our
play always has been always will be but
it may not be what you're looking
for number one let us be United by the
name of Jesus in all of our
proclamations when we Proclaim
Jesus Jesus must be proclaimed in Acts
4: 18 it says and they call him and
command them not to speak at all nor
teach in the name of Jesus which is what
they were doing and verse 19 it says and
but Peter and John answered and said to
them whether it is right in the sight of
God to listen to you more than to God
you judge so if you try to tell me I
can't preach in jesus' name we got a
problem
verse 20 for we cannot but speak the
things which we have seen and heard we
must speak the truth in jesus' name and
Proclaim jesus' name and everybody who
does that is your
friend they're your friend and you need
to find a way to respect that number
two let us be United by the name of
Jesus in all of our identifications so
how how do we identify ourselves it says
in Acts 11: 26 and when he had found him
he brought him to Antioch so it was that
for a whole year they assembled with the
church and taught a great many people
and the disciples were first called
Christians in Antioch now you're going
to think well there's a special name
that they recall that well they recall
Christians by the people who didn't
believe and that's the way it's used
even in Peter it is a derogatory term
but the church you know kind of did what
we did when when I was in school I went
to curry curry is a school out in the
sticks is curry High School is where I
went to school okay school out in the
sticks we were all a bunch of hicks we
had a good basketball team one year
we're playing the city team Walker is
there and uh they had a chance y'all
remember this commercial you can take
Curry out of the country but it was a
cigarette commercial but but you can't
take the country out of Curry so they
they made jokes about us and we beat
them and they made jokes about them and
we beat them again uh sometimes calling
a name like that actually turns it
around it makes you proud of the name
and that's what's happened we are now
proud of the name Christian but my point
is is that we should do that we should
be proud of the name we should use the
name as often as we can you the name
Jesus Christ to identify us I'm a
disciple of Jesus Christ amen I'm not
ashamed of it and then of
course let's be United by the name of
Jesus and all of our persecutions
because there will be ugly things done
and said persecution is not always
beating somebody up most of it has
always been nasty talk about you Acts
21:3 says then Paul answered what do you
mean by weeping and breaking my heart
for I am ready now now not only to be
bound so that's all that ended up
happening to him in the prophecy but
also to die at Jerusalem for the name of
the Lord Jesus so we ought to be as
United as possible with people who would
proclaim the name of Jesus to identify
themselves as trying to follow Jesus and
using that name that way and to anybody
who's persecuted and by the way if
someone that goes to church in ex Church
here maybe we don't find very appealing
and they're persecuted we ought to stand
up for them because we are them if
you're not careful persecution try to be
United with them over the name of Jesus
number next number four let us be United
by the name of Jesus in all our
salutations by the way Romans 16:16 is
not identifying a name to call us it is
greet one another with a holy kiss the
Churches of Christ you so the
significance of the Holy kiss is that
they used to kiss to greet which is
great I'm all fart long as we kiss the
guys
guys if you only Kiss the Girls guys and
girls only kiss the guys girls then
that's not a holy
kiss it's a holy kiss if we kiss
everybody amen boil your lips afterwards
but done that been in churches where
everybody kissed and you walk away go go
go clean that off now
but the Church of Christ is used in that
text as a salutation the Churches of
Christ send you greeting great way to
send greeting yes we use the name Jesus
as a greeting Jesus salutes you I salute
you in the name of Jesus yes that's
great number
next let us be United by the name of
Jesus in all our
devotions in 1 Corinthians 1 verse two
it says this to the Church of God well
there's a different name in it if the
name is the name to the Church of God
which is at Corinth to those who are
Sanctified in Christ
Jesus called to be Saints with all who
in every place call on the name of Jesus
Christ Our Lord both theirs and ours
well that indicates that in the middle
of worship you can't really worship God
the Father without calling out the name
of Jesus Christ Our Lord so this idea
that you only use the name of the father
that's not true you can only truly
worship the father so in all of our
devotions we need to use jesus' name
Jesus should be mentioned Jesus should
be talked about amen the name of Jesus
used and anytime you go to any assembly
that claims to follow Christ they better
use his name in that assembly and a part
of it devotions number
last let's be United by the name of
Jesus in all of our confessions in
Philippians chapter 2 and verse 10 it
says this that at the name of Jesus
every knee should bow that's right your
knee should bow at the name of Jesus of
those in heaven yep everybody in heaven
all the Angels yep all the angels and of
those on the earth that's people that
are alive and all those under the Earth
that's everybody that's dead everybody's
going to bow at the name of Jesus that's
right was that prophesied that prophecy
is Isaiah 45 and verse 23 where it was
originally prophesied the point is is
that whenever we're going to make a
pledge an oath a pledge of confession
that I would die for jesus' name needs
to be a part of
that so it was once a Common Plea for
Unity in jesus' name let's make it
again let's Push It Forward again so
let's be United by the name
so that means in all of our
proclamations Jesus needs to be there
should never be a sermon there should
never be a class that we don't speak the
name in all of our reputations in all of
our identifications how people see us we
should have the name of Jesus associated
with us in all of our persecutions we
should have the name of Jesus associate
iated with us in all of our uh
identifications and
salutations we should use the name of
Jesus in all of our devotions we should
use the name of Jesus in jesus' name we
pray in all of our confessions I believe
that Jesus Christ is the Risen Lord and
Savior it was once common for Unity to
be spoken about in jesus' name so let it
be again here's the problem let me speak
to the
problem a toer said it probably one of
the best ways he said it
this has it ever occurred to you that
100 Pian all tuned to the same Fork are
automatically tuned to each
other what do you mean by
that they are of one Accord by being
tuned not to each other but to another
standard to which one must individually
bow you see what we try to do is sit
down with somebody who goes to another
church and we say let's work at this
out that ain't going to
happen
ever that won't do it look at what he's
saying here so 100 worshippers meeting
together each one looking away to Christ
are in heart never to each other than
they could possibly be they're nearer
than ever were they to become Unity
conscious and turn their eyes away from
God to strive for closer Fellowship that
means simply this if you and I sit down
and we say let's work it
out we are going to be totally United no
we're not we're going to speak exact the
same thing on
everything no we're
not now my wife gets along with me so
well that she's tolerated me for 48
years but if you think we think exactly
the same on everything you don't know
either one of
us the way we get
along is we're United on him
that's the secret it isn't compat sexual
compatibility it's Unity on him you and
I get along not because we agree on
every little thing but because we focus
on him listen to what John Calvin said
among Christians there ought to be so
great a dislike of schism as that they
may always avoid it so fast as lies in
their power that there ought to Prevail
among them such a reverence for the
ministry of the word and the sacraments
that wherever they perceive these things
to be there they must consider the
church to exist nor need it to be of any
hindrance that some points of Doctrine
are not quite so pure seeing that there
is scarcely any church which has not
retained some remnants of former
ignorance and if if you think we don't
have that you don't know
us our pleased un not in the name of
Jesus that's
it I can't Unite with you on everything
because you've got opinions that I don't
agree with and you should be
ashamed no you
should well I can't you not Rex he's got
some weird ideas yes I
do proud of some of
them that's a problem you can't do it
that way so what is the unity focus on
him amen that's it we have to focus on
the name of
Jesus we focus on his word his name we
begin to find the unity that's been
called for in the scriptures we've got a
few more reasons we're going to look
through through in the next few weeks
but these things will guide you if
unless you're determined you're going to
sit down with somebody you disagree with
and you're going to work everything out
well good luck on that one I haven't
found that one in fact all I find in
that is division and
trouble I want to be United amen I do
under Jesus
