we need to pray together uh before I do
I want to say to you uh because the the
topic today uh and the Tope of message
it is in the world we live in now more
and more as I've been in Ministry I hear
fewer and fewer that are excited about
Mother's Day it's the world we live in
now and so as a result of that I need
you to understand um that my duty is
always twofold
I am to comfort those who are
troubled and it is my job to trouble
those who are
comfortable that is my job so I will
always be making somebody uncomfortable
I promise you it's just my duty if you
would before we get into this lesson
though join with me in a word of
prayer Oh Holy Father we come to you we
have no other there is no one else up
there listening and you're it and we're
grateful that we have such a good God
willing to give his son and let him
bleed to death for us father that we
could live with you forever more and I
know that's confusing to people outside
the kingdom but we understand it and
we're grateful for it father we pray
that you would bless all the mothers uh
present or listening online wherever
they might be we pray you bless them all
uh father all our mothers need a
blessing uh the the great and Godly
mothers we have we pray that you would
bless them for being such great and
Godly mothers and the mothers who
struggled they need your blessing maybe
even more so we pray a blessing upon
them and Grant the women out there
who've never been granted yet the gift
of becoming a mother but have wanted to
be a mother all their life and they've
carried the pain of not yet being able
to have we pray that you'll extend your
mercy and Grace to them and either grant
them the gift of being able to becoming
a mother by birth or that you'd grant
them the gift of becoming a mother by a
relationship with a child and we pray a
blessing upon those ladies we pray
father that you would bless us in this
study that we would gain insight into
how uh we need our mothers particularly
as they they make requests and pray for
the rest of us and all that they've done
for us truly there'd be no life on this
planet were not for the ladies and
father I want to just praise you for the
ladies of this church having been in a
country recently where I didn't
understand most of the songs to be able
to hear the ladi's voices singing those
words that I
understood was a blessing to me so we
pray a blessing upon all the ladies of
this church because they make the
singing wonderful it's in the name of
Jesus we pray
amen
motherhood motherhood is that job that
requires no
experience motherhood is that job that
gives no
training motherhood is that job that
pays absolutely nothing
motherhood is that job that you can
never
quit motherhood is that job that changes
people's lives more than anything
else
motherhood in our
text who was this mom who was she where
did she come from we know that she's
James and John or Jacob and John more
appropriately because nobody named James
in the Bible but Jacob and John uh came
to him or yubas you'll appreciate that
came to Jesus and we believe it was
salumi uh she's the most likely wife of
zebede and the mother of James and John
look at these scriptures and you'll see
while that's been concluded by most
people there were also women looking on
from afar among whom were Mary Magdalene
Mary the mother of James the Le
and of Joseph and salomi and the reason
that that parallel it with Mark 16:1
where it says now when the Sabbath was
passed Mary Magdalene Mary the mother of
James and salumi brought uh bought
spices that they might come and anoint
him and notice she spent money I'll come
back to that thought in just a moment
and Matthew 27:56 says among whom were
Mary Magdalene Mary the mother of James
and Joseph and the mother of zebedee's
son so those parallel sounds like salumi
is the one it's been thought so
throughout the history of the church and
Christianity she continues to be
regarded as the probable sister of the
Virgin Mary so that might be a surprise
to you that they the apostles were so
related to each other but if you do the
work of actually chasing it down Jesus
had a relationship with all the apostles
before he called them with maybe the
exception of Judas SC scaria salumi was
likely a financial supporter of the
ministry of Jesus Christ in Matthew 27
veres 55 and 56 and there's a reason I
bring this up so just stay with me in
just a moment verse 55 and many women
who followed Jesus From Galilee
ministered to him now that means they
literally financially took care of the
food and the various expenses that would
happen along the way let me finish now a
ministering to him were there looking on
from afar uh verse 56 among whom were
Mary Magdalene Mary the mother of James
and Joseph and the mother of zebedee's
sons which we believe was her name was
salumi in Luke 8: 2 and 3 it says this
that they provided for him from their
substance which basically means Zebedee
was kicking in if you know what I mean
her husband so the ministry of Jesus had
to be paid for uh they had to they had
to sleep and stay places everything
wasn't free you had to do this and it
cost money to take care of 12 at least
if not about 70 something men that were
always with him and feeding 70s
something people uh every day is a task
a little less feeding 12 to 13 salumi
was the mother of the sons of thunder
according to Mark 3:17 and salumi Sons
were in partnership with Peter and
Andrew so not only were they likely
related to Jesus literally but they also
were partners with uh Peter and Andrew
and that's a connection we have too
salumi Sons were witness of the big
catch in Luke Chapter 5 they were apart
because they were Partners as you recall
Jesus said let's push out again and drop
down your nets we fished all night but
at your word I'll do it and so they did
and they caught this huge catch and uh
James or Jacob and John were a part of
that salumi Sons were in Gethsemane with
Jesus Matthew
26:37 they were close to where he was
now so salumi is likely in her mind
because she was so integral a part of
the family and a part of supporting the
ministry you could actually see why she
might be asking this thing for her sons
beginning to catch on what didn't come
across so
surprising asking great requests from
the Lord by mothers is something that
has gone on since the dawn of time you
may go back to Hannah you remember
Hannah praying you know Lord please give
me a sign and that's in 1st Samuel 1 and
in chapter 3 as well and he was that
long-haired Prophet if you recall
because he also was a Nazarite from
Young
youth Charles ayen Spurgeon mother was
named Eliza
Spurgeon and uh her son James or Jacob
said she was the starting point of all
the great greatness any of us by the
grace of God have ever
enjoyed she
had eight
children she actually had 17
children only eight survived
ladies you feel that don't
you
17 and only eight survived among whom
was Charles Haden Spurgeon this is what
Spurgeon said of his
mother Mrs John Spurgeon has been known
and esteemed for her sincere piety her
great usefulness and humility the
prayerful solicitude with which she
trained her children has been reward Ed
by each one of them making a public
profession of their faith in Christ two
of her sons occupy formost places in the
Metropolis as preachers of the Gospel
the Metropolis was London and one of her
daughters the wife of a minister assists
her husband in the preparation of his
sermon so she's married to a
preacher mothers don't be
shy ask great things for your
children that's at the bottom of this
lesson I want you to understand I
believe that is
appropriate don't be afraid to ask big
stuff for your kids it's appropriate for
you to do that in Psalm 881 and verse 10
it says open your mouth wide and I will
feel it so the Lord wants you to ask big
stuff so we should all do that but
especially when you care about your
children ask big things for them so this
is kind of an interesting kind of take
on this whole thing I think you're going
to find some messages for you wherever
you sit this morning but stay with me
we've only got about four or five
lessons we want to look at but uh we're
looking at a humble ambitious mother
number one this is the first lesson we
want to get beware humble ambition can
sometimes lead to
arrogance stay with me you'll understand
a minute it says then the mother of
zebedee's sons which we think might be
salumi came to him with her sons
kneeling so she's kneeling we think
they're kneeling kneeling down and
asking something from him she's the one
that did the asking we know that because
the next statement verse 21 he said to
her to reply to her request what do you
wish she said to him so this is her
request not theirs their just doing what
their mama has told them to do grant
that these two sons of mine my two sons
May sit one on your right hand and the
other on the left in your
kingdom now such positions of that in
any kingdom are only given to the very
trusted the most trusted of all within
the kingdom how do I know that Psalm
110 verse 1 Jesus got that position in
his father's Kingdom he sits on the
right hand of the father I don't know
who sits on the left but I know he sits
on the right so sit at my right hand no
Apostle at this point had really proved
thems in the ministry of Christ so it's
a bit strange that James or Jacob was
the first Apostle to do this and his
brother John but then James became the
first Apostle to die for this cause Acts
12: 2 and 3 and guess who was the last
Apostle to live and die for the Lord
Revelation 1 ver9 it was John so they
became bookends on the left side and the
right side of the Kingdom James on one
side John on the other I don't think
that's the seat they had in mind but ask
big moms ask big parents your kids
though are not and listen carefully are
not more important than my
kids and I'm saying that for everybody
else here I know a lot of y'all put
these stickers on the back of your car
and you some of you kids see your stuff
up on the fridge you're not the only kid
that has stuff up on the
fridge you're not the only one has a
sticker on the back of the car listen to
me you you want the best amen ask for
the biggest absolutely but understand
everybody else thinks that way
too and by the way you're not the most
important kid in the
room okay those are lessons because you
can go somewhere where you get arrogant
about it if you're not careful amen
number two second lesson beware humble
ambition can sometimes lead to overcome
confidence so ask big amen ask big but
beware verse 22 in our text says but
Jesus answered and said you do not know
what you ask you don't really understand
what you're asking
for often that's the case when we pray
isn't it we don't really know are you
able to drink the cup that I'm about to
drink and to be baptized with the
baptism that I am baptized with they
said we are
able that a little overconfident quite
honestly because they had no idea what
he was even talking about when he said
that thinking it takes only a small
amount of effort to defeat the enemy
it's kind of like thinking it only takes
a small number of men to go over to Ai
and take AI we don't need to all go over
there we can take AI which is a little
group as you recall they lost that
battle so sometimes when you think you
don't really have to put a great deal of
effort into something you get surprised
it actually took a pretty good effort uh
no
Apostles endured with
Jesus listen none of them endured with
Jesus they either ran away or when they
hung around they denied
him so nobody endured it with him what
he went through in Matthew 26 and verse
33 it says Peter said even if all
talking about the other Apostles and all
those that followed whoever they might
have been because we know Maas and
Justice were included in that group
right so there are other people around
other than the apostles even if all are
made to stumble because of you I will
never all right okay and and then verse
35 even if I have to die I will not deny
you this is still Peter talking and so
said all the disciples it says so they
all said we will never walk away from
you we will never be unfaithful verse 56
then all the disciples it's just verse
56 just a few verses later verse 56 then
all the disciples forsook him and fled
same chapter
as
big but
uh be
aware likely all of your children will
fail you in some
way all of your children will stumble
and
sin all of your children can potentially
embarrass the family
because they're human like you because
quite frankly you've been an
embarrassment to
you and I've have been an embarrassment
to
me beware a humble ambitious request may
lead to overconfidence I will never
right number
three beware humble ambition can
sometimes lead to a
comeuppance that's a word you don't use
very often is it
comeuppance ask
big but everybody gets a come up sooner
or later it says in verse 23 so he said
to them you will indeed drink my cup oh
they didn't know what they he was saying
there but they sure did they sure did
you will indeed drink drink my cup and
be baptized with the baptism that I'm
baptized with he ain't talk about water
baptism there brother and sister
uhuh but to sit on my right hand and on
my left is not mine to give but it is
for those for whom it is prepared by my
father there's somebody going to sit
there but I'm not the one appointing
that that's the father's business so ask
big but neither James or as I've been
calling him Jacob because it's his
proper name Jacob nor John could face
the Sanhedrin with Jesus they didn't
Matthew 26 it's clear they weren't there
Matthew 2626 through 75 they weren't uh
but I want to tell you something have
you ever been in those meetings I have
I've been in several meetings where I
was the
problem and they were dealing with me
you've been in those
gentlemen they decided you're the
problem and you're being dealt with oh
it's
fun great to be the
problem yeah I've been there not one
time
several
James how did he face the baptism of
Jesus well I told you a minute ago James
faced the death he was the first Apostle
to die so he faced the baptism that
Jesus faced death what about John John
drank the
cup a bitter persecution how Emperor
demission had him boiled in oil
according to tradition and while he was
boiling in all according to tradition he
preached about Christ well that wasn't
enough so Emperor demission decided that
he would poison him to death so he drank
the poison he was forced to it again did
not kill him but the stories are that he
was both marked from both experiences so
he had scars from both even though
neither killed him so then they banished
him to the aisle of patmas and you know
that story because that's in your book
of Revelation right that's where he is
where you've heard the story two years
after he's put on that Barren Rock the
mission died and so he went home he was
allowed to go home and there he lived
until in his 80s when he passed
away here's the
thing your kids may win now
and lose
later we all get a come upet so I know
we all want them to make straight A we
all want them to marry great get a big
career make lots of money and live the
life of
ease it's a good to pray that we pray it
all the time don't we I want them to be
blessed absolutely have Godly children
yes be faithful in church yes
absolutely and your kids may be doing
just that right
now but tomorrow they may lose because
we had tomorrows when we
lost so beware of a humble ambitious
request it may lead to a
comeuppance clearly we meet them from
time to time number
next beware humble ambition can
sometimes lead to
repugnance it may come as a surprise but
sometimes your desire for your children
can make other people
sick it's kind of like thank you for not
showing me your grandkids
pictures so ask
big but don't be surprised if
everybody's not on board with your kids
getting everything in mine
not right well look what happens in the
text verse 24 and when the 10 heard it
they were greatly displeased with the
two brothers now the mom asked the
question but they're greatly displeased
with the two brothers so you know they
had to be on board or they couldn't have
said that how did Jesus treat his
disciples I'll tell you how he treated
them here's something for all you
gentlemen uh every man in here has done
this we've had young friends right all
of us guys and you know what we do we
give them nicknames all of our buddies
we gave nicknames to y'all remember this
every one of them we can't even mention
some of the nicknames we've given we
can't mention some of the nicknames
we've been given right and we don't want
to talk about that too much I'm just
saying we gave nicknames we got
nicknames we gave nicknames right have
you ever noticed how Jesus gave all the
guys following him nicknames I you ever
thought about it Simon was called Peter
of the rock James and John were called
sons of thunder Thomas was called a twin
Judas was called a scari because he
wasn't one of them From Galilee James
was called the less Matthew was called
the tax collector Simon was called the
Canaanite James was called the son of
alfus I don't know what that connection
that was leas was called Thaddius and
Simon was called the Zealot and so all
of his friends got a nickname ain't that
interesting you know what that says to
me he dreed them all the same there
wasn't anybody in that group that he
treated better or worse than the others
so you're gifted kid can sometimes be
offensive do you hear me I know this
isn't something you thought about but
your gifted kid can sometimes be
offensive for
succeeding ain't that
strange that you may be hurting
somebody's feelings because you're
bragging about your
child because it didn't happen to
them they all wanted Superior Kingdom
positions they all wanted them we all
want our kids to have the superior
positions but there's only two seats in
this
story everybody can't go there so beware
a humble ambitious request may actually
lead to repugnance on the part of
someone
else probably haven't thought about it
let me go to the last point I told you
comfort
the troubled and Trouble the comfortable
last lesson is beware humble ambition
can sometimes lead to
unimportance we should ask big we want
our kids to do important things
amen
amen sometimes the important thing you
do is extremely
unimportant everybody won't be the CEO
of the company
but that doesn't mean what they do isn't
important salomi wanted her sons to be
important and Jesus offered them in this
text servitude it says in verses 25 and
26 but Jesus called them to himself and
said you know that the rulers of the
Gentiles lorded over them and those who
are great exercise authority over them
they have positions of authority verse
26 yet it shall not be so among you but
but whoever desires to become great
among you let him be your servant what
does that mean you're the last person
that needs to be taken care of and
you're the little guy the one that
doesn't matter as much that's what a
servant was but more than that he goes
on to say in the next verse verse 27 and
whoever desires to be first among you
let him be your slave so not only must
be a servant but you must be more than
that cuz that could be a hired employee
you need to be more than that you need
to be a slave now he's talking to James
or Jacob and John but he's talking to
all of them you need to be a slave so G
salumi wants her kids to be important in
big positions like we all do and he
says I'm calling you to servanthood and
to slave which means to be an under
under under Roar and to be one unwilling
to do what it is that you're being
called to do but you must do it
anyway salumi wanted her sons to be
important and Jesus offered them
sacrifice look at verse 28 just as the
son of man did not come to be served but
to serve and to give his life a ransom
for many not to be important Jesus
didn't come here to be important he came
here to be
injured not to be important to be but to
be
insufficient in the honor that he
received so beware to be important to
really be important you have to become
unimportant are you following me to
really be important in the kingdom of
God you have to be unimportant and to be
unimportant means that you are the one
that serves
you're the one that is a slave you're
the one that sacrifices kids you know if
your parents are really praying these
things you know what you're going to get
you're going to learn how to do for
everybody else not you and you're going
to be treated kind of slave likee not
really caring what how you feel about it
and then you're going to be sacrific
your things the things you want to do
well you won't get to do
that's when they pray for you to be
important and you actually become
important so beware a humble ambitious
request may lead to unimportance that's
the
lesson ambition is a natural god-given
desire in fact if you don't have it
there's something wrong with you we all
are ambitious we all want better to
improve it's like breathing it's like
eating if you if you don't want to
breathe there's something wrong with you
if you don't want to eat there's
something wrong with you if you don't
want to increase and accomplish
something there's something wrong with
you you want to accomplish maybe you me
SM smoking too much pot give up the pot
have some ambition okay ambition is not
an enemy it is a friend it is the
potential ambitious Focus that can be an
enemy but not being ambitious and not
being ambitious for your children would
be wrong you should want and you should
ask big for them amen and by the way
kids you ought to ask big for your
mom ask big things for your dad ask big
things for your cousins for everybody
but of all things you need to be aware
what appears to be humble
ambition it's not always humble
ambition and can harm
you William Booth who Liv between 182 9
and 1912 was a preacher of sorts and he
appeared before King Edward the
7th and um he signed their guest book I
didn't even know they had one did you
know that I know their guest books you
sign so at the guest book at the palace
before King Edward
iith he was asked to sign the guest book
and here's what he did he literally
summed up his life work here's what he
wrote your
majesty some men's ambition is
Art some men's ambition is
Fame some men's ambition is
gold my ambition is The Souls of
men nice thought I hope that's true
Napoleon barart this's a series on not
long ago made me realize I disliked him
more than I thought it did
but as you know he's the emperor of
France and he was in it for his power
for his Fame for his glory and his
wealth here's what he said one time this
is really good Alexander Caesar
Charlemagne and I myself have founded
Empires so he included himself little
ego there but anyway let me keep read
but upon what do these creations of our
genius he called himself a genius but
upon what do these creations of our
genius
depend upon
Force
Jesus alone founded his empow upon love
and to this very day Millions would die
for
him a little different isn't it and he
knew it aw toer who's a preacher and
author he said this a true
and safe leader is likely to be
one who has no desire to
lead but is forced into a position of
leadership by the inward pressure of the
Holy Spirit and the pressure of external
situations such was Moses and David and
the Old Testament prophets I think there
was hardly a great leader from Paul to
the present day but that was drafted by
the holy spirit for the task and
commissioned by the lord of the church
to fill a position he had little heart
for I believe it might be accepted as
Fairly reliable rule of thumb that the
man who is ambitious to lead is
disqualified as a leader the true leader
will have no desire to Lord it over
God's Heritage but will be humble
gentle
self-sacrificing and all together as
ready to follow as to lead when the
spirit makes it clear that a wiser and
more Gifted Man than himself has
appeared so maybe we ought to be praying
that our children would be great
followers maybe it's not asking big we
just thought what we were asking for was
the big stuff and it was the little
stuff so have the ambition to please the
Lord amen amen please the Lord pray for
you children to be
saved to understand the grace of the
Cross of Christ and how simple it is to
obey that repenting of your sins
confessing Christ being baptized but
more to pursue the cause of
Christ humbly
it's up to you I hope you have a great
Mother's Day and you honor those mothers
for those prayers that you've never even
heard
