now we're doing something I've never
done before today so you couldn't
possibly be as nervous as I am about
this uh I'm trying to do a couple of
things today and the next two Sundays
that I've never done so hang on forgive
me I know you'll want to before this
lesson's over to forgive me you well no
you won't want to you'll need
to so basically these studies if you see
them up here they were designed after
this study and let me explain just a
little bit this is like the baby this is
the real deal so if you want to really
get in depth you'll need to be in The
Corner Room the prospective members
class on a weekly basis highly recommend
that been using this work by Bobby Bates
for many years it is a great study back
to the Bible this is a more beaten down
version is a basically a one question
version and it's was designed so that
you didn't have to have somebody lead
you through it you could actually read
it yourself and learn it yourself it's a
thre lesson set it's being used with FCA
students at for their scholarship so
they'll get all three of these to
possibly get a scholarship and so I'm
just going to walk through each of the
three so you know what we're doing down
there trying to reach the young people
at FCA uh it's actually quite beautiful
if you look at it and I owe that to my
daughter-in-law Anna and um so but they
are beautiful take a look at them if you
will try not to take too many of them
where it's cost a good bit we are uh if
you have somebody you know that really
needs a study and you can't get them to
study with you then that's what you do
you hand them one of these and you let
them study on your own then bring it
back to you it's one of three like I
said this is the a the ABC's of faith
this is the a this is on Authority
particularly the authority of Jesus um
and so I want you to use it but use it
much slower than what I'm going to do
today please do not do what I'm doing
today uh if you ever work through it
with somebody they need to read it and
answer it thems and work their way
through it you know some uh study the
Bible kind of like butterflies and that
is that they gather sweetness for
themselves and they kind of flit and
flutter and they're pretty it looks
great it's a wonderful thing to see but
then there are those who study the Bible
kind of like bees and bees gather the
same kind of sweetness for themselves
but they also make honey and that's a
work in progress and it's actually not
pretty it's kind of sticky and then but
but because they go through all of that
then it blesses and blesses again and so
if you study the Bible like bees you're
your steady becomes a blessing to others
theoretically the ABCs of faith and this
cover series on authority of Jesus this
is make you just familiar with this the
booklets that's all I'm trying to do
today not trying to make you be a
student in this uh and if you if you can
get a chance look through them they'll
normally be in the foure so if you have
someone ever it's based upon the easyto
read version which is not a very good
version of the Bible let me be rank but
the reason that we used it is because
friends speak which we're also doing in
the church uses the easyto read version
and so we were trying to be
complimentary to that for people who are
struggling with English as not being
their first language which is what
friend speak is all about so this is a
tool to help you reach your friends and
seek the truth in basic study I'd have
to say what what this is is kind of a
microwave quick study of the ABCs of
Faith which is the authority of Jes
Jesus today so let me walk you through
it it's going to we're going to have to
move I'm going to be doing a lot of
reading not a lot of talking okay number
one here we go we're looking at the
authority of Jesus and God's word in
matters of Faith what is the basis of
the authority of Jesus and God's word
and matters of Faith John
8:32 says you will know the truth and
the truth will make you free if you have
your hand out then you fill in Jesus
says we can be made free by knowing the
truth I won't walk you through that
every time so you'll have to fill that
in if you want to fill those in John 4
and: 24 says this God is spirit so the
people who worship Him must Worship in
spirit and truth and the fill in the
blank again Jesus says we must worship
God in spirit and in truth that's it
class you can answer me and John 17 in
verse one it identifies that Jesus is
having a prayer verse 17 in his prayer
he says this make them ready for your
service talking about his Apostles
through your truth talking to his father
your teaching is truth so Jesus says the
teaching of God is truth and John
chapter did I move John chapter 14: 23
and 24 Jesus answered all who love me
will obey my teachings my father will
love them my father and I will come to
them and live live with them but anyone
who does not love me does not obey my
teachings this teaching that you hear is
not really mine it is from my father who
sent me so the answer is Jesus teaching
was from God the father or his father
Hebrews chap 1 veres 1 and 2 says in the
past God spoke to our people through the
prophets who spoke to them many times
and in many different ways and now in
these last days God has spoken to us
again through his son he made the whole
world through his son and he has chosen
his son to have all things so through
Jesus God's son God has spoken to us in
these last days that's correct John 3
and verse 35 says the father loves the
son and has given given him power over
everything so Jesus God's son has been
given power
over everything that's right Matthew
28:18 so he came to them and said all
authority in heaven and on Earth is
given to me sometimes you might not
think this is true because the way the
devil has sway in this world but it's
still true and fill in the blank Jesus
has been given all authority and heaven
and on Earth that's right so don't let
it worry about the election folks John
17 and verse 2 you gave the son power
over all people so that he could give
eternal life to all those you have given
to him so Jesus has been given all
authority over all people that's correct
Ephesians 1: 20-23 says he used used to
raise Christ from the dead and put him
at his right hand in the Heavenly places
he put Christ over all rulers
authorities powers and Kings he gave him
authority over everything that has power
in this world or in the next World God
put everything under Christ's power and
has made him head over everything for
the church the church is Christ's body
it filled it is filled with him he makes
everything complete in every way so
Jesus was given by God to be head over
everything for the church that's correct
okay next one John 12 and verse 48 says
but there is a judge for all those who
refuse to believe in me and do not
accept what I say the message I have
spoken en will judge them on the last
day so Jesus message that he spoke will
be used on the last day to judge that's
correct John 6 and verse 68 says Simon
Peter answered him Lord where would we
go you have the words that give eternal
life Jesus not preachers relatives nor
friends
have the words of
eternal life that's right so the
authority of Jesus and that would bleed
over into the apostles his Apostles
Jesus apostles who are Guided by the
spirit that Authority is not just his
but theirs through the power of the Holy
Spirit and that's what we read John 14:
26 when it says but the helper will
teach you everything and cause you to
remember all that I told you this helper
is the holy spirit that the father will
send in my name so Jesus said the spirit
would teach and cause them to remember
all he told them John 16 and verse 13 it
says but when the spirit of truth comes
he will lead you into all truth he will
not speak his own words he will speak
only what he hears and will tell you
what will happen in the future so Jesus
said the Holy Spirit of Truth would lead
them into all truth Jude chapter 1 and
verse three there's not a chapter two by
the way verse three dear friends I
wanted very much to write to you about
the salvation we all share together but
I felt that the need to write to you
about something else I want to encourage
you to fight hard for the faith that God
gave His holy people God gave this Faith
once and it is good for all time so God
by Jesus gave this Faith once and it is
good for all time that's correct so now
we're on to the authority of Jesus and
his Apostles word in matters of religion
so when it comes to church not
necessarily the world but the church and
the beliefs of religious people he has
Authority his word has Authority and
therefore whatever the apostles wrote
down that he said and their word has
Authority and let's look at how the
scriptures teach that John 20: 30 and 31
Jesus did many other miracles signs
miraculous excuse me signs that his
followers saw which are not written in
this book but these are written so that
you can believe that Jesus is the
Messiah the Son of God then by believing
you can have life through his name so
Jesus is the Messiah God's son and this
was written so that you can believe
that's correct in Romans chap 10 and
verse 17 it says this so faith comes
from hearing the good news and people
hear the good news when someone tells
them about Christ or Jesus Christ that's
correct hearing the good news about
Jesus Christ leads to Faith that's right
in James chapter 1 and verse 21 it says
so get rid of everything evil in your
lives every kind of wrong you do be
humble and accept God's teaching that is
planted in your hearts this teaching can
save you God's teaching about Jesus
planted in your heart can save you
that's right 1 Peter 1 ver 23 says this
you have been born
again this new life did not come from
something that dies it came from
something that cannot die you were born
again through God's lifegiving message
that last forever so God's lifegiving
message about Jesus is how we are born
again now I want to parallel something
you might not have ever paid attention
to the first time you were born you were
born of water and the spirit but it's
different the water was the water of
your mother you were in your the womb of
the water of your mother the spirit was
when you breathed in air that was the
Numa that was the first breath of air
that was the spirit that you you
received and you became uh alive okay
that's what happened to you at your
first birth at your second birth you're
born of water of baptism and the Holy
Spirit comes to dwell within you the
lifegiving spirit that's the parallel
between what that's why it's called a
new birth water spirit water spirit
number next second second Timothy excuse
me 3:16 And1 17 says all scripture is
given by God
and all scripture is useful for teaching
and for showing people what is wrong in
their lives that's old New Testament
it's all good for that it is useful for
correcting faults and teaching the right
way to live using the scriptures those
who serve God will be prepared and will
have everything they need to do every
good work so the answer is all scripture
on Jesus and right living gives
everything we need to do every good work
that's right and then second Peter chap
1 and verse three Jesus has the power of
God and his power has given us
everything we need to live a life
devoted to God we have these things
because we know him Jesus chose us by
his glory and good goodness and so the
question is Jesus power has given us
everything needed to live a life devoted
to God that's exactly right now the next
section of this little study is entitled
The Authority of God's word about Jesus
so it's still Jesus in the story of
Jesus the authority of God's word about
Jesus Christ not altered not added to
nor taken away any part of it so the
whole Bible is like that so don't think
that we're trying to take anything away
from any part of the Bible it's just
what you need to know you're supposed to
emphasize in Deuteronomy 4 and verse 2
this is the old agreement or the old
command uh Covenant you must not add to
what I command you and you must not take
anything away you must obey the commands
of the Lord your God that I have given
you so God's commands that give
salvation in Christ must be obeyed
because that's the will of God always
and forever Galatians 1: 6-9 says a
short time ago God chose you to follow
him talking to the Galatians he chose
you through his grace that came through
Christ but now I'm amazed that you are
already turning away and believing some
something different from the good news
we told you there is no other message
that is the good news but some people
are confusing you they want to change
the good news about Christ we told you
the true good news message so anyone who
tells you a different message should be
condemned even if it's one of us or even
an angel from heaven I said said this
before now I say it again you have
already accepted the good news anyone
who tells you another way to be saved
should be
condemned Grace therefore came by Jesus
Christ and any different message should
be condemned Leviticus chapter 10 still
in the Old Testament now again verses 1
and two when they were instigating the
the temple worship or the Tabernacle
worship verse one says then Aaron's sons
naab and abaho made a mistake they took
their incense dishes and put some fire
and incense in them but they did not use
the fire that was on the altar they took
fire from some other place and brought
it to the Lord this was not what he had
commanded so fire came from the Lord and
destroyed naab and Abu and they died
there in front of the lord we must obey
the Lord carefully and do exactly what
he commanded that's right not adding to
it or taking away 2 John 1 and verse 9
reads everyone must continue to follow
only the teaching about Christ whoever
changes that teaching does not have God
but whoever continues to follow the
teaching about Christ has both the
father and his son whoever would change
the teaching about Christ would not have
God Matthew 15 and verse 9 their worship
of me is
worthless that's a statement the things
they teach are only human
rules so Jesus said worship of God is
worthless for those who teach human
rules
Matthew 7 and: 21 not everyone who calls
me Lord will enter God's kingdom the
only people who will enter are those who
do what my Father in Heaven wants Jesus
said those who enter the kingdom do what
God wants and so now we're on the fifth
section it is the authority of the Old
Testament which obviously it's of God
and it's there for to be used it's a
part of our teaching but it says there's
a new testament so we want to see the
Old Testament versus the New Testament
of Jesus and the significance of that
and how we're supposed to react to that
Hebrews chap 1: 1 and two says in the
past God spoke to our people through the
prophets we know that's the Old
Testament PR predominant he spoke to
them many times and in many different
ways it's a big book old Testament verse
two and now in these last days in the
period with Jesus now in these last days
God has spoken to us again through his
son he made the whole world through his
son and he has chosen his son to have
all things so God formerly spoke through
prophets but now he has spoken by his
son Matthew 28:18 showing the difference
something changed Verse 18 so he came to
them and said all authority in heaven
and on Earth is given to me so Jesus
said in heaven and on Earth God gave him
all authority and John 12 and verse 48
it says this but there is a judge for
all those who refuse to believe in me
and do not accept what I say this is
Jesus speaking the message I have have
spoken will judge them on the last day
so Jesus said that the message he has
spoken would judge that's exactly right
not necessarily every part of the Bible
but what he said definitely John chapter
1 verse 17 that is the law was given to
us through Moses so it's from God but it
came through Moses but Grace and Truth
came through Jesus Christ the law was
given by by Moses but Jesus gave
us Grace and Truth and where would we be
without Grace in Hebrews chapter 9: 15-1
17 and Truth by the way because people
did not understand even the Old
Testament verse 15 so Christ brings a I
changed it sorry so Christ brings a new
agreement from God to his people a new
agreement he brings this agreement so
that those who are chosen by God can
have the blessings God promised
blessings that last forever that's key
this can happen only because Christ died
to free people from sins committed
against the commands of The First
Agreement when someone dies and leaves a
will there must be proof that the one
who wrote the will is
dead and a will means means nothing
while the one who wrote it is still
living it can be used only after that
person's death Jesus brought a new
agreement or as we call it the New
Testament effective at his death Hebrews
8: 6-8 but the word that has been given
to Jesus is much greater than the work I
said word I meant work the work that has
been given to Jesus I've done that every
time I've read this but the work that
has been given to Jesus is much greater
than the work that was given to those
priests in the same way the new
agreement which we call the New
Testament the new agreement that Jesus
brought from God to his people is much
greater than the old one and the new
agreement is based on better promises
forgiveness forever no more sacrifices
verse seven if there was nothing wrong
with the first agreement then there
would be no need for a second agreement
or a second Covenant so Jesus new
agreement or new testament or New
Covenant is much greater than the old
First Agreement that's true next Hebrews
chapter 8: 13 God called this a new
agreement so he has made the first
agreement old and anything that is is
old and useless is ready to disappear
Jesus new agreement or new testament
made the first agreement old and useless
not useless in the sense of not good to
study but not one that's going to take
care of your sin problem acts 13: 38 and
39 Brothers understand what we are
telling you you can have forgiveness of
your sins through this Jesus the law of
Moses could not not free you from your
sins but you can be made right with God
if you believe in Jesus so by Jesus you
can be made right where the law could
not free you
from your
sins Galatians
3:
11-13 so it is clear that no one can be
made right with God by the law the
scripture says the one who is right with
God by faith will live
forever the law does not depend on faith
no it says that the only way a person
will find Life by the law is to obey it
obey its commands the law says we are
under a curse for not always obeying it
but Christ took away that curse he
changed places with us and put himself
under that curse the scriptures says
anyone who is hung on a tree is under a
curse so Christ took away the curse of
the law by putting himself under that
curse Colossians
2:14 because we broke God's law we owed
a debt a debt that listed all the rules
we failed to follow but God forgave us
of that debt he took it away and nailed
it to to the cross the law that listed
all our debt was taken away and nailed
to the cross Ephesians chap 2: 14 and 15
Christ is the reason we are now at peace
he made us Jews and you who are not Jews
one people we were separated by a wall
of hate that stood between us oh race
hate has been around a long time eh
we were separated by a wall of hate that
stood between us but Christ broke down
that wall by giving his own body Christ
ended the law with its many commands and
rules his purpose was to make the two
groups become one in him by doing this
he would make peace so Jesus Christ by
giving his own body on the cross ended
the law that's that's right Galatians 3:
23- 2 before this Faith came the law
held us as
prisoners we had no Freedom until God
showed us the way of faith that was
coming I mean the law was the guardian
in charge of us until Christ came after
he came we could be made right with God
through faith now that the way of faith
has come we we no longer need the law to
be our guardian and so the law held us
as prisoners till Christ and we're are
now made right
through faith I'm almost done I know
you're worried if we'll ever get there
we're almost there Romans chapter we're
almost there we're almost there Romans
chapter 7
verse4 in the same way my brothers and
sisters your old s died and you became
free from the law through the body of
Christ Christ now you belong to someone
else you belong to the one who was
raised from the dead we belong to Christ
so that we can be used and serviced to
God so here's the question through the
body of Christ you became free from the
law and again Romans 7 and verse 6 in
the past the law held us as prisoners
but our old self died and we made free
from the law so now we serve God in a
new way not in the old way with the
written rules now we serve God in the
new way with the spirit so the law held
us prisoners but in Christ we were made
free from the law so this is what we've
seen so just looking at the authority of
Jesus we need to just review it really
quick uh the authority of Jesus and
God's word is uh in all matters of faith
and the authority of Jesus and his
Apostles Guided by the Holy Spirit or is
the authority over us the authority of
Jesus and his Apostles and their word in
matters of religion is over us
particularly as a church the authority
of God's word about Jesus not to be
altered not to be added to not to be
taken away from that Authority is over
us we hold the New Testament dear
because the authority of the Old
Testament was in place but with Jesus
coming and result solving the sin
problem the authority of the New
Testament or the new agreement is over
us and we need to reverence and hold
dear these truths I know I've rushed
through and it's really hard to take all
that in if you need to go further into
it and study I know and sometimes though
rushing through or even just looking at
these things sometimes you don't hold
them as near and dear as we should too
often the word is not treasured I hope
that had a treasuring meaning for you
and there in
1984 a man named John
Underhill uh was painting a home of a
89y old
lady in Spokane Washington and she
invited him in to have a cup of coffee
or something and very friendly lady and
on the on the coffee table there was a
Bible laying there Family Bible don't
see those much anymore right but this
family bible he asked about it and she
told him it was a 116 years old that's a
old Family Bible and she said it was a
Priceless air heirloom and after she
said a few things like that about it he
kind of commented he said um well it
doesn't matter how old the Bible might
be what's inside is what matters and
what really makes it
valuable and she immediately replied oh
I know that sure is the truth why we
have family records and births and
marriages and deaths they go far back
all our records are in that
Bible we could never replace
it yeah think missed the point instin of
the value so we need to respect the
authority of Jesus because in all
matters of our faith his word his new
testament is over us because he's made
the way for us to be be saved obviously
we need to respond to that that's the
first in this three-part series you need
to understand that's the reason it is
the basis of us telling you you must
hear the word You Must Believe In Jesus
you must repent of your sins you must
confess that faith in Jesus and you must
be baptized in the name of Jesus for the
remission of your sins and then you must
live according to this authoritative
word we'll study more about that if you
have any question questions you're
welcome to ask them and you look at
these books and study them further but
there's also study in The Corner Room
don't forget that God bless you you have
a good day if you need to respond come
as we stand in as we sing
