a new study not too long ago found that
the average
person has 13
Secrets five of those secrets you never
told
anyone not a single
soul that's the average some of you may
have more than that some of you may have
less than that Michael slen a professor
of Colombia University their business
school said in that study we found that
when people were thinking about their
secrets they actually
acted as if they were burdened by a
literal physical
weight ain't that
interesting they behave that way when
they were just thinking about
it interesting to me that it was once a
secret that the Fallen World
division was a good
thing and that it stopped tyrannical
Unity we have looked at that
linguistically doctrinally through the
Reformation
movement through even dividing ethnic
groups and how that's a good thing it
was once a secret that we were to be
United by God's m mysterious plan that
was a secret it was not known and if you
think it was known and you read the Old
Testament thinking they understood this
you're mistaken it was not known it was
not understood the great truth that we
know now was
hidden and therefore before Jesus prayed
for Unity God was working on Unity
before Paul preached for
God was working on this mysterious plan
of
unity this plan which is God's plan this
that we're studying this morning is the
great plan this plan was a
mystery and knowing it should unite us
it really should Isaiah 45 and verse
three says I will give you the treasures
of Darkness he doesn't mean wickedness
he's meaning that you can't see it like
in darkness you can't see I will give
you the treasures of darkness and hidden
riches in Matthew 10 verse 26 there is
nothing covered that will not be
revealed it had been re covered up until
Jesus Matthew 11 and verse 25 hidden
he's hidden these things from the wise
and The Prudent I made reference to that
a moment
ago in Matthew 13:3 35 things kept
secret from the foundation of the world
since the world was even created even
the angels weren't allowed to
know Matthew 13:44 the Kingdom of Heaven
is like treasure hidden in a field oh it
was great secret had to be had to be
even God had to keep it a secret to make
it
happen 1 Corinthians 4 and verse 5 who
will both bring to light the hidden
things and so they are coming to life
Revelation 2:1 17 I will give some of
the Hidden Mana it's not talking to
literally about phys physical Mana it's
talking about something to eat on and
he's bringing that to life now knowing
God's mysterious
plan changes you changes us all or at
least it's supposed to It's supposed to
change you listen to Psalm
25:14 this secret of the Lord so the
Lord has Secrets I just talk you that
over and over again so yes the secret of
the Lord is with those who gets it is
with those who fear Him and He will show
them his
Covenant that's
right so all who know God's
secret already fear Him and have already
seen his Covenant and all who know God's
plan already have a lot in common that
unites us if you know his
plan so the distinctive play of the
Church of Christ and I don't mean that
in the sense of denomination I mean the
church let us be United by the plan for
all who know the hidden Mystery plan of
Christ share seven truths that were once
AB absolutely a secret and no one could
know it and let me walk you through it
because you all sitting here likely know
these seven Secrets now number
one let us be United by the plan that
was the hidden Mystery of Christ's
Grace it wasn't fully understood at all
Romans chapter 16 makes reference to
this concept in Romans 16 beginning with
verse 24 it says the grace of our Lord
Jesus Christ be with you all amen now to
him who is able to establish you
according to my gospel and the preaching
of Jesus Christ according to the
revelation of the mystery kept secret
since the world began what was that
mystery Old Testament a lot of people
read the Old Testament they say God
seems so mean but in the New Testament
he seems so loving that's because he
kept
even his grace a secret he was not
different then but he had to keep things
a secret verse 26 but now is made
manifest and by the prophetic scripture
having been made known to All Nations
according to the Commandment of the
Everlasting God for obedience to the
faith to God Alone wise be glory through
Christ Jesus forever amen and amen so
the truth is is that Grace even Grace
as we know it today as we Revel in it
today was once a
secret but now we know it and it was a
part of the secret plan of God number
two let us be United by the plan that
was the hidden mystery of Christ
crucifixion I want to tell you the Jews
had no idea that the Messiah would be
crucified they had no concept because
there wasn't even such a thing as a c
cross in the Old Testament that had
never been invented oh there there had
been where they stick people on a pole
but no one I mean people have been hung
but the Romans invented the
cross crucifixion was not a concept and
yet it was a part of the plan of God in
1 Corinthians chap 2: 6-7 it says this
however we speak wisdom among those who
are mature so if you don't get what I'm
talking about this morning take a note
maybe need a mature yet not the wisdom
of this age when we're talking about the
wisdom of the world nor of the rulers of
this age talking about the people who
lived at the time of Paul nope who are
coming to nothing they're all going to
go away they're not going to be the ones
in power verse seven same true today all
the people in power but we speak the
wisdom of God in a mystery the hidden
wisdom which God ordained before the
ages for our Glory before the foundation
of the world Christ was already slain in
verse 8 which none of the rulers of this
age knew nobody none of them knew it
Herod did not know it none of them knew
it which none of the rulers of this age
knew for had they known it and by the
way the devil didn't know it the devil
didn't know it so none of the rulers
none zero none of the rulers of this age
knew for had they known they would not
have crucified the Lord Of Glory so it
was essential was it not or it wouldn't
have happened so Christ would not have
died on the cross for you had this not
been a great great secret so crucifixion
when they read the Old Testament all
they saw was this conquering King this
Messiah that would Liberate the whole
world and they saw that but they didn't
know what had to happen to make that
possible which was the
cross number
next let's be United by the plan that
was the hidden Mystery of Christ's
Resurrection was no concept of it in 1
Corinthians 15:51-52 it says behold I
tell you a mystery we shall not all
sleep but we shall all be changed in a
moment in the twinkling of an eye at the
last trumpet for the trumpet will sound
and the dead will be raised
Incorruptible and we shall be changed
now here's the thing before Christ rose
from the dead Jews struggle to believe
that there was even any such thing as
life after death the
Jews they struggled to believe that the
leaders of the people who taught the
scriptures the Sadducees who were the
high priests it was their job to teach
the law they struggled they said where
is it in the Bible where is it in the
law where does it say that you'll live
after you die right they actually said
that that's the reason Jesus had to
point out you know uh at the story about
the burning bush God said I am the god
of Abraham and the god of Isaac and the
god of Jacob and God's not the god of
the dead but the living which is
probably a quote quote of what they
would say God's not the god of the Dead
He's the god of the living and he says
that's right God's not the god of the
Dead they're
living but the point is is simple and
that is this idea that the Messiah would
rise from the dead and be the first
fruits of the resurrection and that we
would all one day be nothing but
dust and then come alive
again that that's the greatest Miracle
that's coming to a theater near you I
promise you soon sooner maybe than we
think number
next let us be United by the plan that
was the hidden Mystery of Christ's
Gentiles what that couldn't be true I
mean if you're a good Jew you wouldn't
believe this they didn't Ephesians
chapter 3 beginning in verse one for
this reason I Paul the prisoner of
Christ Jesus for you
Gentiles why did God appoint me for the
Gentiles verse two that's you and me by
the way we're the Nations Gentile it's
just another word for Nations all
everybody but the Jews that's a gentile
so if you weren't born Jewish then
you're a gentile verse two if indeed you
have heard of the dispensation of the
grace of God which was given to me for
you God saved me for you that's right
Paul Paul was saved for the rest of us
verse three how that by the Revelation
he made known to me the mystery as I
have briefly written already by which
when you read you may understand my
knowledge in the mystery of Christ which
in other Ages was not made known to the
sons of men as it has now been revealed
by the spirit to the Holy Apostles and
Prophets it wasn't just made known to
Paul it made known to Peter do you
remember Acts 10 acts 11 made known to
Paul and and Paul and Peter and all of
them knew verse 6 that the Gentiles
should be fellow Heirs of the same body
what the Jews knew that they were the
special people of God that they were the
only body and partakers of his promise
in Christ through the gospel of which I
became a minister according to the gift
of the grace of God given to me by the
effective working of his power he did
all that
verse 8 to me who am less than the least
of all the saints this Grace was given
that I should preach among the
Gentiles The
unsearchable Riches of Christ and to
make all see what is the Fellowship of
the mystery which from the beginning of
the ages has been hidden in God who
created all things through Jesus Christ
God made the world through Jesus Jesus
Christ through the word John 1:1 he made
everything but this business about the
Gentiles the rest The World God said it
over and over again they didn't get it
verse 10 to the intent that now the
manifold wisdom of God might be made
known by the church to the
principalities and powers in The
Heavenly places according to the Eternal
purpose which he accomplished in Christ
Jesus our lord which was Gentiles also
not just the Jews but the rest of the
world and number
next let us be United by the plan that
was the hidden Mystery of
Christ's Church that's right there was
very little if any understanding of this
idea of the church there was talk of the
Kingdom but not the idea of this
worldwide Church they didn't get it
synagogues for
everybody no they didn't quite get that
Ephesians chap 5: 31-35 though it had
been spoken of from the Garden of Eden
for this reason a man shall leave his
father and mother and shall be joined to
his wife and they too shall become one
flesh this is a great mystery but I
speak concerning Christ and the church a
man would leave his father
God and his mother the Heavenly
Jerusalem and be joined to his
wife the
church and they would become
one that was a hidden
story but it's obvious now it's so
obvious to us now that God wanted this
group of people on this Sunday today
just like he's wanted you all along and
number
next let us be United by the plan that
was the hidden Mystery of Christ's
gospel Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 19
as for me that utterance pray for me
that utterance may be given to me that I
may open my mouth boldly to make known
The Mystery of the Gospel where to
preach the gospel the good news is to be
shared with the whole world this was
once a secret it's now the news it was
once something no one knew fully and now
we must spray it everywhere go into all
the world and
preach the gospel so let's try it again
go into all the world and
preach right going into all the world
preach the gospel to Every
Creature he that believeth right believe
Lees the gospel is baptized shall be he
that believeth not condemned so that's
the mystery that was hidden in the
scriptures clearly there now looking
back then
finally let us be United by the plan
that was the hidden mystery of Christ
everyone that's right listen to this
terminology Colossians 1: 25- 29 of
which I became a Minister let talking
about Paul's telling his own story again
of which I became a minister according
to the stewardship from God which given
to me for you to fulfill the word of God
you remember on the road to Damascus God
gives him this message and then he sends
ananas and tells ananas to tell him I
got he's got to go everywhere he's got
to go to all the Gentiles and the Kings
and he's going to suffer many things
verse 26 the mystery which has been
hidden from ages and from generation
ations that's right even what we're
talking about now nobody got it but now
has been revealed to his Saints that's
you and I to them God will to make known
what are the riches of the glory of this
mystery among the Gentiles so Paul says
I've been brought forward to help you
understand so this is now the mystery
that has been hidden is now to be
revealed among the Gentiles which is
Christ in you see it's an interesting
thing this is the only faith in all the
world that believes God dwells inside of
its
people which is Christ in you the hope
of glory Verse 18 him we preach warning
here's what we do every man who's on the
list to be taught every man and teaching
every man in all wisdom that we present
every man so we why are we teaching
every man why are we preaching to every
man that every man will have it
presented and be perfect in Christ verse
28 verse 29 to this end I also labor
striving according to his working which
works in me mightily oh amen everybody
should be able to say that that works in
me mightily that everyone everyone who
is God trying to save every
everyone who does he want everyone every
man every man on the planet every man
every woman every child God wants them
all there's the
message and we should be United by it
there a great truth these seven truths
that were a total mystery the idea of
Grace the way we understand it now
didn't understand it crucifixion wasn't
even a concept the resurrection not the
way we've got it now that Christ led the
way the the Gentiles no surely not yes
the church we've got a synagogue no the
gospel really we' got to tell everybody
and everyone joined with us that my
friend is why we ought to all be United
once all these aspects of God's plan
were an absolute secret and yet it's in
here I mean you go back in the Old
Testament you read it it was there how
could God do that I don't know God tell
you something and tell you the whole
story about it and you still can't get
it it can still be hidden Proverbs
25:2 it is the glory of God to conceal a
matter amen it is the glory of God to
conceal a matter the Duke of Wellington
if you've ever heard that name The Duke
of Wellington he's a famous guy once
upon a time he's a British general and
he's mainly known for
defeating Napoleon at waterl in 1815
that was a great battle he was right he
did exactly what he should do to whip
Napoleon and the world is grateful that
he did it so that's the
truth however earlier in his career that
wasn't the first thing he'd ever done
earlier in his his career he was in
India and he had been given the
responsibility of making
negotiations with uh after the battle of
aay and there the Emissary of the Indian
ruler that he was working with was
anxious to know what territories the
kingdom that is Britain uh was willing
to seed to his master and and he's
trying all these different ways to get
this secret information out of
Wellington the
general he tried everything you know
he's being smooth he's talking to him
and lovey W all of that finally he
offered Wellington a large sum of money
you need to tell me my master wants to
know I need to know before it happens
here's a large sum of money will you
tell me the lands that you in to give
here's what Wellington said he turned to
the young Emissary and he
says can you keep a
secret and the guy leaned in he says yes
indeed I can keep a secret and
Wellington said so can
I it is the glory of God to conceal a
matter and he did
it I feel it don't you he did it he
absolutely did it once all these aspects
of the plan and Christ were a
secret but now all who know God's secret
plan here's what we know about them we
read it earlier all who know about it
everybody who knows God's secret plan we
know fears
God and we know that they know his
Covenant
we know those two things so with those
two concepts we have much in common even
if you and I were to disagree about
other things I know you fear God and I
know you know his Covenant isn't that
wonderful we're already United so the
spirit of being united by the plan is
that we should be respectful of each
other always and we're called to be
United by this plan so learn God's
hidden Mystery of his wonderful land his
mystery of the grace that is extended to
you not of Works L any man should boast
right you can't earn it the mystery of
the crucifixion Christ on the cross the
hope of glory the resurrection from the
dead Christ and that you too will die
and you too will rise the Gentiles all
the nations of the world being brought
in the church where we meet now the
gospel itself that we're to preach to
the whole world no longer a secret and
that everyone everyone is desired to be
a part of this by the god that created
us all guess what people didn't
understand him in the Old Testament
Jesus revealed him to us and now we know
what a great God we serve amen oh what a
great God he is
