the idea of coping with our fears
suggests the idea that as Believers we
really are thought to supposed to have
access to ways um that help us to be
less fearful and I think that's probably
true we have statements like in 2
Timothy 1 and verse 7 for God has not
given us a spirit of
fear but of power and of love and of a
sound mind and 1 John 4:18 says there is
no fear in love but perfect love casts
out fear because fear involves torment
but he who fears has not been made
perfect in love now there are many fears
in this world uh list a few here there
many kinds of fears and I think probably
Believers are targeted actually by some
of the fears that exist in this world
but here are a few that you've heard of
there's the fear of flying since we're
talking Super Bowl maybe you've heard of
the guy named John Madden John Madden
famous football coach and
commentator uh he was afraid of flying
did you know that he was so afraid of
flying that he always took a bus so all
those games he was all over he rode on a
bus but after a while of riding on the
bus he bought a bus bus for
$800,000 now most of us are not going to
buy an $800,000 bus so we can get to
football games around but he did that
because he had a fear of flying there's
the fear of clowns you may not know this
but Johnny Depp has an absolute Terror
of clowns I know he dress up like a
clown literally to me and Pirates of the
Caribbean and all those movies and yet
he's afraid every time he sees a clown
he just about runs there are those who
have the fear of heights I'm in that
category I'm scared of heights uh actor
Liam niss is absolutely terrified of
height so if you see him in any movie
where he's up high now that's just
movies he's not up high he's terrified
of Heights and then there are those who
are well known who have fear of insects
there's some interesting fears of
insects uh actress Scarlet Johansson
from South Africa has a terror of
cockroaches now I got to be honest with
you I'm a little scared of them but I've
seen my wife run out of a kitchen Once
Upon a Time by a cockroach so there are
a lot of people who don't like
cockroaches but more than that Nicole
Kidman is the most unusual fear of
insects that I've ever heard she is
terrified of butterflies have you ever
heard that one never heard that before
Nicole Kidman terrified of butterflies
and then there's Justin Timberlake I
mean he's not Usher but Justin
Timberlake uh is afraid of spiders go
figure I want to give you 10 ways to
cope with your fears that I've seen in
the uh py magazines that's moving it
moved okay good these are just some ways
they recommended 5% of the population
all the time have phobias is more than
you might recognize but just you know
Terror of some things but uh there are
two fears psychologists say we are all
born with and if you don't have these
fears there may be something wrong with
you one is literally the fear of falling
and I've seen them do experiments where
they let a child crawl over some glass
able to see and it scares them so almost
every baby has a fear of falling and
then the other thing we have a fear of
is loud noises we hear a loud noise and
we all tend to jump so those are just
two things that we all have from when
we're small the psych ologist though did
a interesting study at this one
University they asked 500 people what
are you afraid of so you would think you
get 500 answers right
7,000 answers later out of 500 people
7,000 fears what do you do with those
fears here's some that they suggested
take time out that means basically this
distract yourself go have a cup of tea
if you're scared about something another
one was breathe through your Panic they
recommend that you learn to control your
breathing and even exercise that breathe
slowly and deeply another one is face
your fears that means if you're like
scared on an elevator and yesterday you
had a bad experience go get on the
elevator again it'll help you to deal
with it in the future cuz you probably
have to ride an elevator again another
one is to imagine the worst that could
possibly happen and you can come up with
some terrible ideas and you say well
that's what I'm afraid of but here's one
that's probably never going to be the
problem and that is it'll it'll give you
a heart attack you'll die of a heart
attack if you get scared that's not very
likely so imagine that and for some
reason imagining it it seems silly to
you and you get over it another one is
look at the evidence ask yourself if
you've ever heard of what you're scared
of happening see like I'm afraid of
falling off a bridge we used to live in
a town with a Bridge of about 130
something feet high and you could walk
across it but I could not bring myself
to walk across it because I fall
differently than everybody else I fall
up about 10 feet and then I fall out 10
feet so even if I'm 10 feet away from
the edge I'm still going to go over and
I you know I'm I'm scared of it so that
that doesn't make any sense look at the
evidence another one's don't try to be
perfect uh life is messy and if you're a
little scared every on in that's not the
end of the world another one is
visualize a happy place close your eyes
and go there that's what I did I don't
know if y'all know this but Universal
Studios has this Harry Potter area you
ever seen that and they have like that
big castle thing you ever written that
thing that big castle thing okay first
time I ever got on that I had a panic
attack literally because I was in this
box and I hate small places and I hate
high places and in that box I'm like the
only thing I could do close my eyes
close my eyes wrote it didn't see any of
it was great ride though I he here it's
a great ride uh visualize my happy place
talk about it so it's a good thing to
talk with your partner spe particularly
your mate but a friend talk about what's
worrying you what's scaring you about a
family member or call a hotline for that
matter another one is Go Back to Basics
that basically means one of the best
things sometimes if you don't want to
have fear in your life is to have just a
good night's rest I know that may sound
strange a wholesome meal can help you uh
balanced diet a good walk can help you a
lot so those are some things and then
reward yourself if you do really well
and you handle a fear one time treat
yourself go have some chocolate or
something you know make yourself happy
so all of that is considered what I
would say all of those is human wisdom
and human wisdom's great it has value I
don't want to make fun of it I just
recited it to you right so I think it
has its place but I got to be honest
with you I'd rather have Divine wisdom
would you I'd rather have something that
comes from God that tells me specific
things that should help me through my
fears so that's what we're going to do
just right here this passage you read a
moment ago it's got everything I'm going
to say from here on out okay should be
simple to find and go through and we
might get out in time to see at least
the end of the game okay so number
one we can cope with our fears when we
know God is present listen to what it
says fear not for with you you know
Isaiah 7:14 says that Jesus would be
called Emanuel that is god with
us if you really believe God's with you
dwelling within you in the Holy Spirit
in your life you have the Bible with you
if you really believe that it should
calm you if you think on it but you got
to think about it you got to remind
yourself the Lord's with me the second
truth I want you to see see we may get
out of here earlier than you think the
second truth is we can cope with our
fears when we know God this is strange
is
God that may sound strange to you but
fear not it says for I'm with you be not
dismayed for I am your God interesting
that it would say
that that God is God that he's our god
um Hebrews 11:6 says if you're going to
please God you can't please God unless
you believe two things you never will
please God unless you believe two things
first you must believe that he is or
that he exists and the second thing you
must believe is that he is a rewarder of
those that diligently seek him so
basically those are two fundamental
concepts do you believe in God that he
exists and that he's a rewarder of those
that try to follow him that's basically
it if you believe that then you believe
you have hope of eternal life right now
so it should alleviates your problems
some of your problem you just believe
God's God and God's with you third
lesson even quit number three we can
cope with our fears when we know God is
helpful it says in this text fear not
for I am with you be not dismayed for I
am your God I will strengthen you yes I
will help you do you believe God will
help you things work out God will make
it work out it may not work out the way
you want it may not work out the way
you've envisioned it probably most of
the time it might not be in your best
interest I remember when we were going
to Africa I envisioned I knew you know I
had I knew a bunch of churches before as
I was rais on my phone you'll appreciate
this Tren I knew a bunch of churches I
worked with preached at knew quite a few
2030 at least that I was real familiar
with right and I made a list of 10
churches that I knew knew me so well and
I knew them so well there's no way they
wouldn't help me a little bit to go to
Africa I went through that list not a
one helped me until we were about ready
to leave and then a couple of three came
through but I was shocked they were just
not interested so here's the thing I
sometimes think I know what God's going
to do but I found out I don't know what
God's going to do is uh 1 Samuel
17:47 the battle is the
Lord's he's he's engaged you don't
protect yourself like you think you do
you don't provide for yourself like you
think you do the battle is the Lord's
it's not by
might but by his spirit all right last
Point wo we might actually see some of
that game tonight I know some of you are
sitting there going well you
know want that we can cope with our
fears when we know God is
righteous this is the most important
thought I hope you can really get this
one it says fear not for I with you be
not
dismayed for I am your God I will
strengthen you yes I will help you I
will uphold you with my righteous right
hand you know this may be the most
important thought because believing
God's with you if you don't believe he's
necessarily perfectly righteous might
not make you feel any better just
knowing that he's God may not make you
feel much better uh knowing that he says
he's helpful may not make you feel much
better if you don't believe he's
absolutely righteous and he's going to
do absolutely the right thing he's not
going to do something similar he's going
to do the right thing every time it's
not going to change it will be the right
thing Genesis 18:25 shall not the judge
of all the Earth do right now if he's if
he's going to judge us all there's he
he's not qualified to judge us all
unless he does the right thing every
time himself you can't judge somebody
that you don't do the right you're not
qualified to even though we're not
perfect he's not qualified to judge
unless he does the right thing every
time so he does and so maybe if you're
full of fear sit down and remind
yourself God's present with me he's the
god that has the power to do whatever
needs to be done he will help me and he
will do the right
thing now if that doesn't hit you just
right just think on this just for a
moment as a Believer there needs to be
stability a
house not rocked by
storms wind will hit it rains will hit
it a flood will come but a mind
unafraid will be unafraid of a sinking
boat or a cross that they're facing now
who was unafraid of a sinking boat and a
cross that they were facing but the Lord
Jesus he faced it we need to show the
world what a faith will do what faith
will do it will be
undestroyed by the idea of death or
trouble not that we Embrace death not
that we Embrace trouble that would be
crazy that would not be right death is
not our friend death is our enemy
trouble is not our friend it is our
enemy even though it's our enemy and sin
is our greatest enemy a heart
unmoved because our savior overcame
death and overcame sin and overcame the
grave we should not
fear but we get
scared we get you know we get scared one
of my friends used to always say uh you
don't have to worry about me I'll never
hurt you but don't scare
me I don't know what I'll do if you
scare me right so we do get scared many
years
ago when the originator of this story
and and I'm going off of that because
some have said this is not a true story
but I actually think it's a true story
where I read it but he worked as a
volunteer at a hospital is the way the
story goes and he knew of a little girl
her name was
Liz and she was suffering from a very
rare
disease now her brother who was older
than her had the same problem whatever
that was and he had managed to survive
it however he did it his his body had
adjusted uh he was five year five years
old now his sister's like three and and
he had survived it almost miraculously
they were shocked that he lived through
it but he had lived through it and he
had developed what they called
antibodies to whatever the disease
was and the doctor then because they
believed his blood if they gave her a
transfusion from his blood she would
have the the antibodies and she should
be able to overcome this disease giving
that help and so they went to the little
boy he's 5 years old the doctor did and
explained the situation of his little
sister and said you know asked the
little boy if he would be willing to
give his blood to help his sister
overcome that disease and he hesitated
for a moment and then he shook his head
took a deep breath and said yeah I'll do
it I'll do it to save her and as the the
little boy laid there on the cot they
had him right next to each other and as
he laid on the cot and it progressed uh
in his little sister's color changed and
she perked up and she began to smile it
was all good and the little boy started
smiling and then seeing all that his
smile faded and he looked up at the
doctor and he said will I start to die
right
away he thought he was giving her his
blood and that would have been
it being young he misunderstood
everything the doctor had told
him and all his blood would have been
taken to save her he was willing to do
that for
her and what's amazing is he did it
without
fear I believe that there have been many
people who've done some amazing things
in this world walked into
battles walked into a building on fire
amazing things that they've done and
they did it without thinking not being
scared
they just did it because they felt it
was the right thing to
do I want us to be like that don't
you I want us to have that
passion I'm not saying that we never get
scared you know you hear and bumping the
night you get up go look shoot the door
whatever I mean I get it we we're all a
little bit that way I don't know if that
can be absolutely
overcome but I would like to be the type
person that wasn't stopped in life who
didn't do anything who didn't go
anywhere who never took a
risk I want to be willing to take a risk
don't you I I want to be willing to
try and I would like to you know I'm
going to be 67 here in a day or
two I I really would like to uh
go out without any fear at
all you know almost looking forward to
it you know what I mean and not that I'm
looking forward to dying I'm not saying
that I'd like to live at least another
month or two right now I'm telling you
straight up but but I'm just saying
would you I mean so but
but I'd like to be like him wouldn't you
willing to do it to walk into hell for a
Heavenly cause
to do something whatever it
took to serve the Lord without any
fear
amen let's try for that it we won't get
it
perfect but we can try for it and the
only way you can do it is if you believe
the Lord is
present and the Lord really is
God and that he will help you at those
moments and that he will do the right
thing by you and save you you see if you
believe that by his grace you'll be
saved you can relax amen if you're not
right with the Lord then it's hard to
relax there might be someone here who
hasn't got that because they know
they're really not right with the Lord
if we can help you in any way let us
know while we stand and while we sing
