you know there are I believe uh big
purposes and small purposes I don't know
if there is only one purpose for your
life I know ultimately your purpose is
to glorify God but I don't know if I
could say that you only have one purpose
in this world I think that would
probably be child is inmature but I
believe everything has a purpose and so
I believe there are small purposes and
there are large purposes like for
example let me give you a small purpose
you have a little toe right it really
doesn't control much about your walk uh
you can walk fine if you don't have a
little toe big toe that's a different
thing but with your little toe you
pretty much don't have a lot that it you
do with it as you walk so I've
discovered its purpose and you generally
Discover it in the middle of the night
it helps you discover where the
furniture was supposed to be and where
you thought it was and it's really good
at doing that it'll tell you right where
that piece of furniture was and you
didn't know that and good good to know
I'll fix that in the morning morning in
the spring of 1871 a young medical
student named William O oler okay or
Osler picked up a book by Thomas carile
now William Osler or oler a lot smarter
guy than I am okay we'll be real honest
and Thomas Carlile even more smart so he
read 21 words he says changed his future
now oler is the guy that organized the
world famous John hop Hopkins school of
medicine and was kned by the king of
England so he's he's a really kind of
smart guy important person and here's
what he read that Thomas Carlile said uh
these 21 words said changed his life our
main business is not to see what lies
dimly at a distance but to do what lies
clearly at hand now I read that I
thought okay didn't quite catch it
wasn't actually sure what it was talking
about so I went and tried to figure out
what Thomas Carlile meant by that or
William oler really meant by that and
how it changed his life and Sir William
oler explains the best possible way to
prepare for tomorrow is to concentrate
with all your intelligence all your
enthusiasm on doing today's work
superbly today that is the only possible
way you can prepare for the future I
thought that was good but it's still
pretty wordy and I like what Charles
Kingsley said about this statement in
1856 he said it this way he was an
English clergyman he said do the work
that's nearest though it's dull at whs
helping when we meet them lame dogs over
Styles I have no idea what he's trying
to talk about about the lame dogs but I
did appreciate the idea that you deal
with what's nearest even though it's
dull so Albert Einstein trying to
explain this statement to I thought gave
the clearest most pristine way of
explaining what he's trying to say here
he said this anyone who tries to drive a
car while kissing a girl is not giving
the kiss the attention it deserves and I
thought well I understood that I got
that completely basically pay attention
to what you're doing right now or are
you going to you know mess it up and
clearly driving a car is not nearly as
important as kissing a girl so pay
attention to what you're doing doing for
God do it well it's your purpose and my
purpose is seen in God's manifestations
your purpose is seen and God's
manifestation now what are
manifestations what does it mean to
manifest it means to exhibit of course
but it means any kind of appearance
declaration clarification disclosure of
God uh thus I must somehow not only
understand that I must manifest him
disclose him and here are some
scriptures on it John 14: 21:22 says he
who loves me Will Be Loved by my father
and I will love him and manifest myself
to him I'm going to try to explain how
that's done in a moment Romans or at
least some of the ways Romans 1 and
verse 19 what may be known of God is
Manifest in them for God has shown it to
them talking about the evidences of
God's existence in Romans 1 in Romans
10: 20 I Was Made manifest to those who
did not not asked for me talking about
how that God was able to reach people
who really wasn't looking for him
particularly our ancestors Gentiles who
were not really seeking God God was able
to reach out to the Gentile World Romans
16: 25 and 26 says Jesus Christ the
mystery kept secret since the world
began but now has been made manifest and
that is through the cross and the gospel
that we have today in 2 Corinthians 4:
7-12 I'm going to start at verse 9 it
says persecuted but not forsaken struck
down but not destroyed this is what Paul
says his experience is in presenting the
gospel and how he's being persecuted
verse 10 says always carrying about in
the body the dying of the Lord Jesus
that the life of Jesus Also may be
manifest in our body verse 11 for we who
live are always delivered to death for
jesus' sake that means that the apostles
particularly were particular aimed at to
kill them all that the life of Jesus
Also may be manifest in our mortal flesh
so literally we display the truth of
Jesus by being willing to die for Jesus
those are all great I want to look at
five ways that though this
manifestation uh shows our purpose shows
God purpose and our purpose and so
that's basically the lesson we're going
to look at number
one God manifests his purpose in the way
he seizes us it says in verse 12 this is
Paul not that I have already attained or
am already perfected but I press on that
I may lay hold of that for which Christ
Jesus has also laid hold of me he seized
me and whether or not you want to admit
it or not and whether or not we had the
same experience as Paul did we didn't
none of us have the same experience
anyway but we all have similar
experiences that is that God seizes us
we were not necessarily
looking maybe you were but a lot of us
weren't really looking and God reached
out and seized us so the way God seizes
us and saves us it's like a testimony to
be
shared and that's
important our story of how God got in us
how God got us how we got
God is an important story and you know
what we don't tell
it we don't tell it
enough my family we weren't really
looking God seized my family I promise
you um my purpose is to share my
testimony of God and how he seized
me from an alcoholic's
home now most of you didn't have that
experience
and you don't know what I'm talking
about that's okay that's great but there
are those that
would and that would mean something to
them and immediately they go I know what
that's like I live there and so that is
an important message because there are
people out there that don't believe in
God because they were raised in an
alcoholics
home and whatever your experience is
however God found you there are people
out there that didn't believe in God
because that was their experience your
experience is the reason they don't
believe do you understand what I'm
saying now how God sees you they went
through that and as a result of going
through what they went through they
don't believe that's why your story is
important because you can then tell them
you went through it and help them to see
why you came to
believe so Paul big story I'm against
everything about Jesus and God turned
him that's a great story but your story
is just as important to the people you
know number
two God manifests his purpose in the way
he forgives us and the way he forgives
us is phenomenal I mean just the idea
that all we did wrong before little L
all we've done since then but all that
we've done wrong could be wiped away
we don't talk about that very much do we
don't talk about it much because we
don't talk about what we did wrong
number one because we don't want to
sound like we're bragging about the bad
stuff we did right but in Philippians
3:13 says Brethren I do not count myself
to have apprehended but one thing I do
forgetting those things which are behind
and reaching forward to the things which
are ahead see I think the greatest
aspect of forgiveness is forgetting it
when you can forget
what you did
wrong that's when you know you've been
forgiven when you don't even remember it
anymore what a great thing the way God
forgave us and help us to move
forward must be
shared I don't sit around maybe you do
but I don't I don't think Paul did
either I don't sit around and say oh my
goodness I did this oh and I I did this
I don't I met Once Upon a Time yeah
there was some of that in me but that's
forgotten now I don't even think of
those things anymore what a great
blessing that is and you know that there
are people out there that are carrying
those monkeys on their back every day
and they would love to be able to do
what you've had happened to you to know
that you've been forgiven so the your
purpose my purpose is to share that my
purpose is to share my testimony of God
forgiving me and letting me forgive that
and feeling the relief that I now have
amen the relief that you have amen I
that's that's a big monkey off of our
back it really is now unless you've
never done anything wrong but the rest
of us have done a few things wrong so so
I that's a way God manifests himself in
our life I mean the idea that I could
forget all of
that praise the Lord number
next God manifests his purpose in the
way that he calls
us this is not exactly the same thing
I'll show you what I mean verse 14 I
said I press toward the goal for the
prize of the upward call of God in
Christ Jesus that call
upward to be greater and
better but more than that because he did
that he gave us that call in the midst
of our
sin and so my way way that God called me
your way the way that God calls us and
teaches us this gospel of grace that
says I know what you've
done but you can do better not only can
that be
forgiven but you can be a much better
person that's your
purpose it's the purpose God has called
us to my purpose is to share yes my
story My Testimony your story your
testimony of how God called me
higher I mean really if you look back I
mean is it really if you You' probably
never thought about it because you don't
know me that well I mean I know you
think you do but I mean none of us know
each other that well right we don't we
don't really know each other we don't
talk about everything that happened but
imagine a little boy in an alcoholic
home preaching the gospel that's just
wild to me as I hear that it just sounds
Wild to me I mean just how did that
happen how did that even happen I
certainly shouldn't be
qualified so that
calling that maybe I could do something
higher that that I not just be saved but
I I might could do
something
higher that higher upward
calling to not just be down here
wallowing in the
mire where I could have been with the
drugs and the alcohol could have just
wallowed
there I'm not wallowing
there you're not perfect but folks if
you've you've been lifted by the grace
of God that upward call that's your
purpose to share that and how God's
pulled you up and helped you uh tie your
own boot STS number next God manifests
his purpose in the way he reveals
us this is a tough one look at verse 15
therefore let us as many as our mature
have this mind so if you really think
you're spiritually
mature this shouldn't be a problem to
you if it's a problem to you then you're
immature like I am therefore let us as
many as are mature have this mind and if
anything you think otherwise God will
reveal even this to you
see the way God reveals to
us deeper and mature things needs to be
shared uh what that basically means is
none of us are quite as mature as we
think we are and God shows us mature
ways all along but we struggle with
listening to them my purpose is to share
my testimony of God revealing my
immaturity
in my needs this business about I'm
going to tell people about what I've
accomplished no no not that if you
really want to have an impact upon
people you tell them about how immature
you've
been how you
goofed and God still worked with you and
how he revealed that you were
wrong Welly I've got a lot of those
stories to
tell
yeah and he does he reveals it to you
you think you were so mature right Rex
yeah
yeah not so mature after all now
next God manifests his purpose in the
way he unites
us it says in verse 16 nevertheless to
the the degree that we group us we have
already attained let
us walk by the same Rule and let us be
of the same
mind the way God unites us with other
believers in Christ needs to be
shared quite
honestly we've
got few things in
common you have interests that are
different than mine mine are different
than yours why are we
together uh some of y'all like to play
golf what a waste of
time what a waste was of money I think
it's one of the dumbest games I've ever
seen I've tried it and I got worse and
worse and worse but I finally scored 72
and quit cuz that was on nine holes so
uh that's why I
quit considered it was done I've tried
fishing horrible
fishermen uh what else have I tried I've
tried several things that I just I'm
horrible at
um you too you have interest I don't
know what some of you are
into
music some of you are into
sports some of you are
into collecting
things some of you are
into hoarding
stuff whatever you're
into but look at this we're all sitting
in the same
room we don't look the same we don't
agree about we differ politics in here
thank the lord we can attend church and
disagree over politics amen I'm so sick
of somebody telling me how I got to vote
and then expecting me to tell people at
church how you got to vote that's just
wrong oh I got a big Amen on that didn't
I brother yeah well you're wrong if you
think we ought to preach politics here
and I'll disagree with you until the day
I die on that one amen
wall amen cuz we got to be United now
you want to talk about issues that's
different thing maybe but my purpose is
to share my testimony of God uniting me
I am a loner I don't like to be around
people much if you go to my office
you'll see there's a one door in and I
am at the back of the building and I
really don't really need anybody to come
in there and if you want to come you can
come anytime you want anytime you want
come talk to me you come talk to me and
that's fine uh but I'm okay if you never
come
myam and I'm a Loner I don't know what
they call that there's probably a name
for that psychologically but I I've got
problems I've got Hang-Ups and uh just
like you I've got not same ones but I
mean I got problems Hang-Ups and so I'm
just saying that the fact that we have
been United together and we're supposed
to follow the same Rule and have the
same mind and we're to get together as a
unit I think that's worthy of telling
the world I think the church family is
the greatest thing on earth I really do
I think the Church of Our Lord because
it pulls all us weirdos together and all
you good people together with us weirdos
thank you so much for being willing to
share with us and and be together with
us because we're just so diverse so
different and yet we can be together and
praise God together amen ain't that
wonderful I just think it's the greatest
thing just the greatest thing and that's
our purpose and people need to see it
and we need to share that and the world
needs to know that you don't have to be
this to get along with
that so there's kind of the lesson
tonight here are the things that I see
in this little text finding my purpose
in God's manifestations these are not
writings in the sky these are things
that happen in our life These are
manifestations that God has manifested
himself to us individually God manifests
his purpose and the way he seized us the
way he forgave us the way he called us
the way he revealed who we really were
to us and how he unites us you know our
encounters with God in our life story
our witness if you will our testimony if
you like that term becomes a bridge so
your life story becomes a bridge to
those
familiar uh or of similar
challenges and I see that and I hadn't
seen it until I was working on this
lesson I hadn't seen it until I I show
you something 1 Timothy 1:16 I obtained
Mercy that in me first Jesus Christ
might show all longsuffering as a
pattern to those who are going to
believe in him for everlasting life so
first of all Paul is a pattern uh to be
a pattern he has to be uh showing
something and in in what he's first
saying is he's showing all those no
matter what you've done really really
bad I kill Christians right and God
forgave me God somehow got me in right
by the grace of God even while I was
doing that so that's the first thing but
the second thing is what he's really
saying is that he's not just a pattern
of that he's a pattern of being a
pattern you see if you're a pattern
you're a pattern of being a pattern see
Jesus is a pattern and therefore he's a
pattern to be a pattern so when we reach
people for Jesus we're kind of a pattern
pattern to them when you're a pattern of
a pattern so he's now a pattern to us so
what that basically means is that we too
like him are to encourage others to
become
patterns are you following that or have
I confused you totally and so their
story will help others so everybody you
reach you need to encourage them to to
let others know their story because
their story is not your story it's not
my story each person has a little story
share your story and the gospel that you
know you say well I don't know enough to
teach anybody what did you
do what did you do become a Christian if
you didn't do what you're supposed to do
to become a Christian you're not a
Christian so you better have done what
you need to do just tell that
story if we forget that our main purpose
is to share our testimony of what God
did and manifested himself within us
because that's so critical to help
people believe I love the Bible I want
to study the Bible with anybody I'll
study with you all night long really I
love to do that I really do I mean I
think what Ray and Jenny West do in that
Open Bible say that's great everybody
that teaches around there when we're
trying to reach somebody and you're
opening the Bible but I want to tell you
something there's a time when you're in
that study that you have to tell them
what happened with
you and that's what gets them more than
anything else literally all that we do
in this life is wasted if we don't do
that
the Taj Mahal you ever heard of it by
the way we're going to be staying when
we're in Cape Town we're staying in the
Taj this kind of probably the reason I
found this the Taj
Mahal uh Dr James doson tells the story
in in his book coming home Timeless
wisdom for families back in
1998 he told the story of the Taj Mahal
that I'd never heard before so the Taj
Mahal uh was in 1629
uh the wife of the Indian ruler sha
yanan or Jan I don't know I've never
spoken Indian so I
don't she died and he loved her and he
he was so devastated by her death that
he wanted to remember her with a
memorial that would just be outstanding
so he wanted to make a magnificent tomb
in her honor so the sha placed his
wife's casket in the middle of this
parcel of land and buried
it and then construction began around
it okay this is the true story I'm not
making this
up and several years went into this you
can imagine if you've seen it you know
it's magnificent right it's just ornate
unbelievable it it's not quite as
beautiful as it once was just because of
pollution but several years into the The
Venture the uh Shaw's grief for his wife
changed into what we might call a
passion for the the thing so he was no
longer just grieving he's now passionate
about this thing becomes an obsession
with him to build this thing one day
while they were surveying the
construction site he stumbled across a
wooden box and so he had some of the
workers throw it out into the trash and
get rid of it months later he realized
that that
box was his wife's
casket and he had it destroyed you see
his original
purpose to create a memorial for his
lost
love had become
lost in the idea of
construction has your original
purpose been
lost in the idea of just getting through
your
day have you forgotten that your story
is an important story that God loves
your
story that he doesn't want you to forget
your
story and he thinks your story is
neat and he thinks it'll reach some
people if you use it just right and you
share the gospel along with it so don't
get so busy with your life that you
forget your most important
purpose which is your
story what God's doing with you what's
he doing with you has he manifested
himself oh no he's yes he is are you
paying attention he's working with you
even now maybe even through this lesson
so if you're there and you need to make
a change hopefully he's working on you
right this moment that your testimony
your witness your story your life
becomes the means for reaching one
more I think it could do that if we
would just share it so let's try to get
out
of constructing the Taj
Mahal and remember what we were really
trying to
do have a memorial to the Lord
