I think the amount of people here shows
that uh we don't really read the
bulletin too well cuz for the last two
weeks my name has been on here to preach
tonight you guys still decide to show up
so I don't know if we need to start
using bold letters or something like
that but in all seriousness I'm honored
to be up here it's always a pleasure um
it's something that I'm excited to do
tonight it's been a blessing to me to to
study and I hope that uh you guys can
take something out of this lesson
tonight so before we get started let's
uh go to go in prayer dear God we thank
you so much for this day we we thank you
for the ability to come here tonight and
worship you we pray that as we uh go
through life struggles that that we take
heed of the stories that we see in the
Bible and look to job for an example and
and really um take some time to to
understand the armor of God and how we
can use that uh to our advantage when we
get attacked God we we pray that uh the
service goes well this evening uh it's
something that you and joy in Jesus name
amen so tonight uh we'll be speaking
about Jo job's application of the armor
of God I've always been a a big fan of
crossover episodes um when I was younger
I remember sitting in the living room
and watching Steve Urkel sit on the the
foot of the bed with Stephanie Tanner
and um help her through a time where she
had just gotten a new set of glasses and
she was dealing with her self-confidence
issues and he was maybe not the best
person to to go for uh someone who was
self-confident but he was there and
talked to him and then later in that
episode I remember Uncle Jessie teaching
him how to walk with a little swag and
uh hold his head UPR right obviously it
didn't work but those those were some
cool episodes where you saw Family
Matters in Full House I remember um one
of the cartoons The Fairly Odd Parents
and Jimmy Neutron seeing them bounce
back and forth in between uh each of
their different animated worlds and and
thinking about how cool that was
um and then in my studies I I really
enjoy the Book of Job personally um it's
it's a cool way to see from different
perspectives um to understand how to go
through trials and then when looking at
it the last time I was I was reading
through a few months ago I was looking
at it through the lens of possibly him
using the armor of God um because we use
the armor of God to defend ourselves and
in in battle and job is one of the
biggest people in the Bible one of the
biggest examples that we see of someone
who went a battle with Satan so it was
cool to see those correlations of how he
was able to use the armor of God so
that's what we're going to be going
through tonight is we're going to be
going through each piece of the armor of
God and how it correlates and how job
was able to use that uh in his fight
with
Satan so first we're going to look at
the belt of Truth we read it earlier uh
it was read really well and I do
appreciate that uh Ephesians 6:14 says
stand firm them with the belt of Truth
buckled around your waist with the
breastplates of righteousness in place
uh we see the application of this in job
13:
1-12 this is after uh everything bad had
kind of happened to him his world had
fallen apart and he had sat with his
friends for a few days in silence and
then Joe broke that silence and now he's
talking to his friends and his friends
kind of hit him with a rebuttal um
kind of challenging him to see what he
did wrong to cause all these issues to
come on to himself and this is what job
has to say in in retort to to those
things so we'll look at verses 1 and two
my eyes have seen all this my ears have
heard and understood it what you know I
also know I am not inferior to you so
the way that job's friends came back at
him they were um they were almost
seeming like they knew more than job did
so job here is just trying to say that I
understand what's going on as well or I
don't understand really but we're all in
the same boat you guys don't have any
more information than I do I don't have
any more information than you do we
don't know the truth right now so they
kept trying to say what truth was um but
in that and them trying to say what
truth was they were attacking
job verses 3 and 4 says but I desire to
speak to the almighty and to argue my
case with God you however however smear
me with lies you are worthless
Physicians all of you so job is is
beginning more and more frustrated with
his friends and he starts pleading to
talk to God to understand what the truth
is and his friends again are they
they've said what they think their truth
is and and they really are causing more
issues going at job than they are
helping him so he's just getting more
and more frustrated and he's getting
frustrated not only about what he's got
going on but the fact that his friend
are giving incorrect opinions in the
name of what they believe God is
saying so we drop down to verses 5
through 8 if only you would altogether
be silent for you that would be wisdom
hear now my argument listen to the pleas
of my lips will you speak wickedly on
God's behalf will you speak deceitfully
for him will you show him partiality
will you argue the case for God this
one's kind of interesting because again
they his friends are are speaking almost
deceitfully for God even though they
they don't know what's going
on um and they were they were coming to
God's defense incorrectly and that's
what job is saying why are you arguing
the case of God when you don't
understand what you're even
arguing we go verses
9-13 would it turn out well if he
examined you would you deceive him as
you might deceive a mortal he would
surely call you to account if you see
secretly showed partiality would not his
Splendor terrify you would not the dread
of him fall on you your maxims are
Proverbs of Ashes your defenses are
defenses of clay keep silent let me
speak let then let come what
may these are again job calling out his
friends um and
it's job's calling them out because of
the reason that they are going at job is
they're internally scared because job
was known as this blameless man and this
man of God and all these bad things are
happening to him so these people who
might not be as comfortable or even as
good of Christian men and women that
they don't know what they've got coming
for them now so really their rebuttal in
them trying to talk for God and whatever
the truth that they are saying is is
really them trying to protect themselves
because they don't want what's happening
to job to happen to them and they see
this great man of job
get all these things happening to them
so they they're scared so in because
they're scared they are then acting as
if uh job is the
problem so for us we need to understand
that what the truth is we need to have a
good knowledge and understanding of what
the truth is that way when we are um
experiencing things in life we're able
to to combat evil with truth and having
a false understanding of Truth can
actually hurt people and ourselves uh if
we spew what we believe is truth but
might not actually be truth because we
don't have a good understanding of it
next we're going to look at the breast
plate breastplate of righteousness we
look at the second half of Ephesians
6:14 stand firm then with the belt of
Truth buckled around your waist with the
breast Place breastplate of
righteousness in
place one thing when it comes to job
that I've always looked up to is his
righteousness
it everything that he had to go through
was miserable but at the same time what
an absolute honor it is for God to put
that on you for God to have the kind of
confidence in you to say hey satan like
no matter what you do to this guy he's
he's not going to turn his back on me
he's never going to curse
me so God knew that but I believe even
Satan knew that I want to look at Job 1
and look at veres 6- 11
now there was a day when the Son of God
came to present themselves before the
Lord and Satan also came among them the
Lord said to Satan from where have you
come Satan answered the Lord and said
from going to and fro on the earth and
from walking up and down it and the Lord
said to Satan have you considered my
servant job that there is none like him
on the earth a blameless and upright man
who fears God and turns away evil and
Satan answered the Lord and said does
job fear God for no reason have you not
put a hedge around him him in his house
and all that he has on every side have
you blessed the work of his hands and
his possessions have increased in the
land but stretch out your hand and touch
all that he has and he will curse
you I believe in this in this section
that we can see how Satan understands
that job is righteous because from what
we know about Satan he he's not going to
take on a challenge that would be easy
if if job was an easy target it wouldn't
really matter because he would already
have him but Satan saw job as a
challenge enough to where he wanted to
take on this challenge to attack him and
then we also see that job remained
righteous even when his wife and his
friends doubted him we see in job
2:9 where uh job's wife said do you
still hold fast your integrity curse
Curse God and die we've already seen
that his friends were against him we see
that his wife is against him he's got
everybody saying and play into Satan's
trap and even with all of this he's able
to fend off Satan and live how he's
supposed to be so for us we need to be
able to live a life that even Satan
takes notice to we need to be so strong
that even when our friends and family
might try to sway us we have a good
enough understanding that we are not
swayed next we'll look at the sandals of
peace Ephesians 6:15 says and with your
your feet fitted with the Readiness that
comes from the gospel of peace to
understand the meaning of sandals I
think it's important to understand what
sandals look like back in the day uh the
upper part of the sandals were in open
work so that they had good ventilation
and they had lots of straps that allowed
for adjustment to fit the person's foot
the soes were made of several layers of
leather and were clenched with hob Nails
arranged in patterns these Hollow studs
provided a firm grip on the soil and
then they had Spike like protrusions
that could dig into the ground and they
could keep the soldier surefooted and
stable when he's holding his ground or
advantages against the
enemy so they were basically like
cleats job had his whole life and his
whole world Tor torn apart by having his
family killed all of his riches being
taken away all of his cattle killed and
he was struck with physical
disease but we see how job responds to
that adversity in job 1: 23
22 at this job got up and tore his robe
and shaved his head and he fell on the
ground and worship and said naked I came
from my mother's womb and naked I will
depart the lord gave and the Lord is
taken away May the name of the Lord be
praised in all this job did not sin by
charging god with wrongdoing job's
immediate response to his world being
shattered was to immediately
worship When Trials come our way we have
decisions to make uh Keegan mentioned it
this morning we have the option of you
know going down the path of doing drugs
alcohol whatever Vice you want to say or
we can get down and immediately
worship I think it's a great example
that that job showed that somebody who
got some of the worst luck in the world
immediately started to
worship next we're going to look at the
shield of faith we see this in Ephesians
6:16 in addition to all this take up the
shield of Faith with which you can
extinguish all flaming arrows of the
evil one
job could not have gotten through his
trials without extreme Faith uh there's
two quick points that I want to make
about job's faith that I think that can
help us through
trials job knew that suffering could be
good is the first one job never reacted
to his trials with any indication that
suffering was abnormal or immoral there
was only one true good man in the
history of everything and he was killed
on a cross so what are we to expect any
different how are we expected to go
through life thinking it's going to be
easy even if we CH a Christian
walk God also trusted in God's
Providence job didn't know what was
happening up in heaven and he had no
idea that God and the devil were going
back and forth with him and he still
remained faithful because he trusted no
matter what God had him
covered I think as humans we have a
tendency to be Fairweather people um
when things are going right we're we're
right there on the bandwagon and we're
huran and you know we're we're for it we
were talking this morning in the young
adults class about marriage and how um
today it seems like when marriage gets
hard it's just it's time to divorce like
we'll just go our separate ways I think
we see that a lot in in people in their
Christian faith as
well I A lot of people are trying to
fill that god-sized hole that we heard
about this morning they're coming to
church looking for something and it's
once they get it they think everything's
going to be great but really when things
get hard is when you start to get
tested so it we can't be fair weather to
the point where you know I I started
coming to church because I had this hole
and now the hole is filled but now
things are getting hard and I mean
things I had less rules before why not
just go back to that we got to be able
to withstand that and understand that
good bad things can happen to good
people as well it it just is what it
is the next point is the hel helmet of
salvation Ephesians 6:17 says take the
helmet of salvation and the sword of the
spirit which is the word of God helmets
help to protect the most vital asset of
our
brains job was comfortable enough in his
salvation that he was able to face
extreme hardship in this world with
knowing that he had the protection of
Salvation job understood that there's
more to life than just what we're doing
here on
Earth and we see that when he's talking
to his friends in job
19: TW TW 25 26 for I know that my
redeemer lives and at last he will stand
upon the Earth and after my skin has
been thus destroyed after this body is
turned to Ash yet in my flesh I will see
God we as Christians have a unique and I
feel like better perspective on this if
you're going through life and you don't
have any hope of tomorrow if you don't
have any hope of life after death or
anything like that what's there to
really live for so yeah if you go
through trials it's going to be terrible
it's cuz that's your end all be all but
we have a hope of way more than that we
have the hope of heaven we have the
understanding that someone's gone before
us to take the place of us in you know
hell but it really makes the struggles
that we deal with on Earth minute
because this is such a short time
compared to Forever which is what we
have to look forward
to the last point is the sword of the
spirit Ephesians 6:17 says take the
helmet of salvation and the sword of the
spirit which is the word of God job
didn't quote any Scripture in this book
but he did converse with God directly to
see how job listened to God when he was
talking to him and how he
responded so he says who is that that
hides counsel without knowledge which is
a quote from God in uh job 38:2 and then
job responds with the same verbage in
chapter 42:3 says therefore I've uttered
what I did not understand and things un
things too wonderful for me which I did
not know shows that job is heeding those
words that he heard in the the previous
chapters and he was able to spit them
out in a way that he knew that he
understood and was and was conversing
with
God and it also you wouldn't be able to
go through these struggles you wouldn't
have you wouldn't be able to um to be
thought of as highly as job was um if he
didn't have a firm foundation with
scripture and if he wasn't so studied
and was and applied those studies to his
life to conclude Armory back in the day
was an easy way to tell the which
soldiers were which it was a good
identifying
Factor Roman soldiers had red crests of
horse hair on their helmets making them
easy to identify we see this today too
with sports teams we can see you know
the lightning of blue and white and they
got the big lightning bowt we you got
you know people who are wearing jerseys
you know it's the Bucks you know it's
the Colts you know it's the Saints you
know who people are with and we too as
Christians when we put on the armor of
God we identify ourselves as
Christians we identify ourselves by
understanding the truth and applying our
the righteousness to using the gospel of
peace how we Shield ourselves with our
faith how we're protected by salvation
and how we fight our battles with the
spirit so if the armor of Christ is
something that you want to put on and
you want want to be baptized today we
can do that tonight just believe repent
confess and we can do that baptism
tonight as we stand and we sing
