the British uh War Ministry dispatched a
coded message to the officials in the
British colonies and they went to all of
the colonies and one was a very remote
African Colony that they had and this is
what the message said from the British
uh War office it said war
declared arrest all enemy aliens in your
District
now that was followed by a quick reply
from this remote African um
compound have
arrested 10
Germans six Dutch four French Two
Italians three Australians and one
American please advise immediately who
we are at war with
you could start a war like that see what
we may not realize sometimes is that
literally it is ignorance that is one of
our biggest enemies ignorance of the
scriptures ignorance of who our enemy
really is ignorance can create all kinds
of problems for us Hosea says it very
clearly my people are destroyed for lack
of knowledge so I think one of the it
may may be a very simple lesson what I'm
fixing to share with you but I think it
is critical that you understand God's
Plan of Salvation and understand it in
every aspect not just here believe
repent confess and be baptized I think
if that's your extent of understanding
the gospel you don't understand the
gospel very much um so we want to look
at three really quick
ideas Understanding God's Plan of
Salvation results in
motivation what is it that makes us want
to serve the Lord a lot of people think
it is strictly the fear of Hell well I
think that's a part of the whole concept
but I don't believe that's the primary
motivation I believe it's something
entirely different if you begin with me
if you have your Bibles open to that
passage in Romans 12 to get the context
we need to back up to chapter 11 back up
to chapter 11 I'm going start in verse
28 and begin reading concerning the
gospel they talking about Israel are
enemies for your sake but concerning the
election they are beloved for the sake
of the fathers so their enemies that
means they were the ones who primarily
had Jesus killed and they were also the
enemies of those spreading the gospel of
Christ they considered it a false
teaching and they fought them because a
lot of lot of the people they were
reaching out to were the Jewish people
and they didn't particularly care that
they were being converted verse 29 goes
on to say for the gifts and the calling
of God are irrevocable that means what
God had promised he does not ever revoke
his promise so the promises he made to
the fathers he's never revoked them
verse 30 for as you because that would
make him like man changing but he
doesn't change verse 30 for as you were
once disobedient to God yet have now
obtained and here's the key word if
you're making marks in your Bible
obtained Mercy through their
Disobedience the reason that we have
been received one of the major reasons
we've been received and now stand in the
gospel is because they rejected the
Christ and killed him had he not been
rejected and killed we would not have a
gospel that is for the world to save all
of
mankind so it was essential that they be
disobedient and we obtain Mercy because
of their Disobedience that's his point
verse 31 even so these also have now
been disobedient that through the mercy
shown you they also May obtain mercy so
he's saying we've been disobedient too
uh that through the mercy shown you they
also May obtain mercy so both have been
disobedient both are receivers of Mercy
verse 32 for God has committed them also
to Disobedience that he might have mercy
on all so literally he's committed us
all to Disobedience who's been
disobedient the Jews absolutely the
Gentiles absolutely who's been
disobedient we've all been disobedient
what does that teach you if God's going
to save anybody he's got to save the
disobedient which is us all that's what
he's suggesting by his Mercy verse 33 oh
the depth of the riches both of the
wisdom and the knowledge of God how
unsearchable are his judgments and his
ways past finding out for who has known
the mind of the Lord who gave him advice
or who has become his counselor nobody
did that this was all his doing through
Christ verse 35 or who has first given
to him and it shall be repaid to him who
blessed God where he naturally wanted to
repay all of mankind no one did that
verse 36 for of him and through him and
to him are all things it's all his it's
all his glory to whom be glory forever
amen and then chapter 12 now now you
begin to understand the mention of Mercy
in verse 30 the mention of Mercy in
verse uh 31 the mention of Mercy in
verse 32 this is all God's mercy and how
he's shown Mercy to the entire world
through Christ Jesus now he says in
verse one I beseech you Brethren
therefore Brethren by the mercy mercies
of
God what is it that makes us want to
obey God there it
is it's his
Mercy it's not the fear of him as much
as it is the fact that he's willing to
be merciful to us that's our motivation
and that's the reason Paul says in 1
Corinthians 159-10 he says I labored
more abundantly than all because the
grace of God that was shown to me he was
in absolute Rebellion against God and
yet God reached out and tagged him when
he's in Rebellion against
God
Mercy that motivated him and so he
labored more abundantly than all anybody
motivated by Mercy is going to be far
more active far more committed than
those only motivated by fear and that's
just a fact so somebody says well we
were you talking too much about Grace oh
no no no it's Grace that makes me want
to do it not fear fear alone will not
keep me doing it proof of that is
spanking didn't make me SP it's when you
decide that they actually loved you and
they were looking after you number
next Understanding God's Plan of
Salvation results in transformation so
when we truly understand what God has
done for us it is what transforms us
let's read again beginning verse one uh
we're to present your bodies a Living
Sacrifice holy acceptable to God which
is your reasonable service verse two and
do not be conformed to this world but be
transformed by the renewing of your mind
we can be changed I was listening to a
song the other day and I loved it it it
basically said this was the Gaithers it
said that God changed a coal into a
diamond and God can change a piece of
sand into a pearl and God can change a
worm into a butterfly I think God can
change you and me he can make us into
something else he can transform us and
that's that's the idea here
understanding The Plan of Salvation what
God has done in Christ and his
substitutionary atonement that we talked
about this morning that literally has
the power to transform us and the thing
is is like 2 Corinthians 3:18 it says
that we're changed from glory to glory
as we behold Christ Christ as we truly
begin to see what was done in Christ as
we truly begin to see Christ himself and
see the love that's been Express to us
we are being
transformed that is what literally
changes
me I become more
loving love joy peace patience kindness
goodness faithfulness gentleness and
self-control become the motives of my my
heart because I see what he did for me
number
next that is Understanding God's Plan of
Salvation results in demonstration so
what needs to happen now is contained in
verse two when it says be transformed by
the renewing of your mind that you may
prove what is that good and acceptable
and perfect will of God one of the most
important things that we do is we prove
this well how do you prove it too many
people think I'll do it with
science oh I know what I'll do I'll show
you how much I know about the
Bible well no we'll we'll have a debate
and I'll out debate
you that's not how you do it it's
actually in uh Peter if you want to
convert your husband same concept you
want to convert your husband he's not a
Christian be
quiet and live
it you want to reach somebody you want
to prove that this is true live
it demonstrate it that's how you prove
it when you see someone's life truly
changed that can't be argued with you
can think that you can argue with all
these other things you can't and you
don't you just go real quiet on that
people don't do that they just they look
at you and they go oh and that's the
reason he says it this way this renewing
of your mind that you may prove what is
that good and acceptable and perfect
will of God in 2 Corinthians 9: 13 it
talks about when these Gentile converts
were giving to help the Jews in Israel
it says that their gifts were the proof
of this ministry Paul says or the
ministry of Paul
the very fact that Gentiles in the world
would dare gather up
money and send it to the people of
Israel to help them indicates some
things changed because as you know
anti-Semitism is not something new it's
been around a long time and so that very
idea that we would care about people
like that is a rare thing and it is the
proof that the min for real both to the
Jews and to the rest of the world that
you've been changed that much so that's
the demonstration of the faith that's
all this lesson is I've kind of well
summarized it told you that if you
really understand the mercies of God
you're motivated to do what's right if
you really understand your mind is
changed you will be transformed and if
you really understand and you have that
motivation and you receive the
transformation you become the
demonstration and the proof proof of the
ministry of Christ and you become the
evidence not your words your behaviors
your attitude is the proof that this is
for
Real DWI Moody told about a family night
this is back before there was a
Pictionary that's the reason I thought
it was a cool story before there was a
Pictionary there was a Pictionary so
Pictionary got their idea from something
that people used to do did you know that
they didn't know that did you you
thought they invented it no that's not
what happened so people used to do this
they played uh thing that they call they
didn't call it Pictionary but basically
homemade Pictionary and one Christmas
the themes that people were picking were
around the whole Christmas theme right
and so their little nine-year-old
daughter Sarah Drew the difficult phrase
because they had these these packs of
phrases for Christmas and her phrase was
glory to God in the
highest okay she's nine right she's
nine glory to God in the highest these
are Big Ideas right Glory how would you
define how would you draw glory to God
in the highest how do you define the
highest how do you define glory to God
in the
highest and what she did is she started
drawing and just immediately Moody said
she just started drawing immediately
didn't even have to think about it and
she starts drawing on this board and and
they're astounded that she's drawing
something and she draws this puts a what
looks like a head and and a body and and
legs and then she draws arms and then
giant
hands and
immediately they knew she was talking
about
God glory to God in the
highest you see the truth is that Jesus
is the
gospel
and it's by him we actually see God and
know
God it's what we're really talking about
here is what motivates
me
Jesus what transforms me
Jesus what is the greatest demonstration
I can make in the proof that this is
real when I behave like
Jesus there it is so whether you're a
young person about to leave home going
off to
college or whether you've been around
this church for years and years we need
to understand God's Plan of Salvation
because when you really understand
it everybody sees Jesus if you're here
tonight and you haven't given your life
to Jesus Jesus don't worry about
me sooner or later I'll be dead or gone
just like everybody else here worry
about your relationship with Jesus give
your heart to Jesus tonight if you'll
repent of your sins sure absolutely that
means to change your heart that's what
that means change your heart give it to
Jesus if you'll confess Jesus that means
you confess him as your lord not just
your savior but your lord and you're
committed to him as your lord and then
if you're willing to die we bury you in
water you die to who you've been you
come up a new
person and then you do everything we've
talked about tonight you
become the gospel
itself you are not only the
demonstration and the proof but you're
the one we see that's changed and you're
the one that truly truly is motivated
not because you're scared but because
you want to demonstrate Jesus and you're
motivated by the mercy that you've seen
if that's motivating you the gospel is
yours tonight and you can come forward
we'll help you every way we can right
now as we stand and as we sing
