you know too many look at their
marriages like kind of going to a
restaurant uh you know you order what
you want but when you see what everybody
else at the table got you kind of wish
you'd ordered that and I'm afraid that's
the way a lot of people kind of approach
their marriage uh marriage and divorce
data for the US in
2022 are better than the numbers than we
used to hear and and in some ways and
they're about the same really uh in uh
2022 there were 2,
65,536
73,9 189 that's uh less than one in
three uh percentage wise of course
that's not statistic you can't go by
that that's not statistically correct if
you have half a million divorces and a
million marriages there haven't been
half half of marriages don't end a
divorce that's not the way that works
that's that's making statistics tell you
anything you wanted to say it's when
it's about half it's about one and four
and when it's a third it's about one and
six so actually divorce has dropped it
seems in the United States at least in
2022 the church is married or really
it's more appropriate to say the church
is betrothed to Christ we're not
actually married to Christ yet the
wedding Feast has not happened we have
not entered into that time yet but we
are betrothed to Christ and that's the
terminology that's used 2 Corinthians
11: 2 says for I am jealous for you with
Godly jealousy for I betroth you to one
husband that I may present you as a
chaste virgin to Christ so you've not
been if you will presented to Christ yet
until that day uh so to to abandon even
a betral though in the scriptures a
betrothal was considered a marriage so
while I'm saying what I'm saying you
understand that it's not like an
engagement now you get engaged now
you're not married okay that's different
situation and you don't have to go
through a divorce if you're engaged and
you break it off but the way they
operated a betral was counted as a
marriage and once you were betrothed to
get out of the betrothal you had to go
through a
divorce okay that's the way uh it was in
the New Testament so uh to even get out
of betal required a putting away or a
divorcement and that if you're a little
iffy on that go to Matthew chap 1 you'll
see verses 18 and 19 it says now the
birth of Jesus Christ was as follows
after his mother uh
Mary uh was betrothed after his mother
Mary was betrothed to Joseph before they
came together she was found with child
of the holy spirit so she was that's
Jesus mother was betro to Joseph verse
19 it says then Joseph her husband see
even refers to her him as her husband
even though they were only betrothed
being a just man and not wanting to make
her a public example was minded to put
her away secretly so while they had not
come together it wasn't a full marriage
yet it was considered a betral yet they
were considered husband and wife so and
even though he was trying to do this
very secretively and do it
privately uh a divorce even in that
circumstance is not easy it's not joyful
and it cannot be kept totally private
and uh nothing can in this world
especially anything like that but the
worldly Among Us can carelessly divorce
and we see it all the time and in it the
same way people can carelessly divorce
Christ and his church and that happens
more than you might think people walk
away from their Church often uh
they may try to keep that private people
who quit Church often try to do it in a
very low key way uh they'll kind of
slowly dissipate and slowly quit
attending some will abruptly do it some
will make a big thing about it fuss and
everything like that but a lot of people
who quit church will do it kind of
slowly and quietly but the faithful
still notice it because where where's
brother so and so where's sister so and
so that still happens Matthew
13:22 says the cares of this world and
the deceitfulness of riches choke the
word and he becomes unfruitful we see
that you can't help but see when
Brethren begin to be less faithful you
can't help but notice it so I know that
you may think you sit here in church and
nobody pays any attention to you I
assure you there are people watching you
all the time and we feed off of each
other in our faith and it's important to
us that you're here it's important to us
that you're faithful and it hurts us
when we see you not be the people that
we know you could be we want to see you
successful and spiritually doing well so
this lesson is designed to encourage us
that are what I would call shocked there
are Brethren who I don't know maybe you
just kind of new to this concept but you
may be a little shocked when there are
those who divorce the church and divorce
the Christ that we love and leave the
rest of us sitting here kind of
scratching our head and kind of
wondering uh why why did you
leave you've probably felt that why did
you and it feels like by the way it
doesn't feel impersonal it feels very
personal it when somebody leaves the
church it feels like why have you
abandoned us it doesn't just feel like
why did you abandon the Lord it feels
like why did you abandon us what did we
do right and you don't like that feeling
at all and such abandonment identifies
some things about that person it
identifies who's with us those with us
that's what the scriptures talk about in
1 Corinthians 11:19 for there must also
be factions among you there must be and
listen to that statement must be there
will always be people walking away from
the church there will always be factions
in the
church and it must
be now you just need to hear that just
for a second let that ring in your ears
quit being shocked there must be why
must it happen and here's the reason
that those who are approved may be
recognized among you you see the ones
who never leave we notice
that in 2 Timothy 2: 19 nevertheless the
solid foundation of God stands having
this seal the Lord knows those who are
his he always has and he always will he
knows those who are absolutely committed
to him and he knows those who
aren't that may not you fool me I can
fool you but we don't fool the Lord
right can't fool him and so also these
kind of abandonment identify who is not
with us those not with us are like 1
John 2:19 they went out from us but they
were not of us now that's a that's a big
statement right there people quit
flocking with the birds they're not
alike that's right they leave us because
they are not
us that's a big eye opener and it's a
shocking thing to people when they see
that somebody leaves you saywell they
just got hurt wait no no no no they left
cuz they were not us listen to what it
says it's not me saying this they went
out from us but they were not of us for
if they had been of us they would have
continued with us but they went out that
they might be made manifest that none of
them were of
us that's a statement isn't it listen to
1 John 4
uh verses 1-6 but I think verse 6 this
it encapsulates all of this it says we
are of God he who knows God hears us
listen to that statement you may not
like this statement this are really true
people don't want to hear what we have
to say they're not one of us I don't
care if they sit in our
pews they're not one of us if you don't
like what we teach you're not one of us
that's just the way it is we are of God
he who knows God here hears us he who is
not of God does not hear us don't want
to listen to that that's just the way it
is it may sound harsh but it is
absolutely the truth so I want to look
at seven types of divorces in scripture
I've never done this before so we're
going to look at all the different kinds
of divorces that happen in scripture
every one of these happen in the Bible
we want to look at these seven different
ways that people have been divorced in
the Bible and apply it to how people do
the same thing to Christ in his church
same thing all over again so we'll look
at those
okay number one Christ and his church
may be divorced for an Earthly
inheritance that's what T happens in
Genesis 21: 8-10 now this is patriarchal
age and so even the divorce laws didn't
exist that are in the law of Moses so
you may look at this and you say I'm
against ask that Abraham would do this
well listen to me he did not live under
the law of Moses he did not live under
the law of Christ the rules were
different for him sorry if that offends
you but there were a lot of differences
about marriage and the like back then
just be aware of what actually happened
in this te text it says in verse eight
so the child grew this is the child of
Hagar so the child grew and was weaned I
mean not child of this is uh I got it
backwards I'm talking about uh Israel
I'm talking about um Isaac it says so
the child grew and was weaned and
Abraham made a great feast on the same
day that Isaac was weaned so that's who
we're talking about sorry verse n and
Sarah saw the son of Hagar that is
ishmail the Egyptian whom she had born
to Abraham scoffing making fun of the
other child therefore she said to
Abraham cast out this Bond woman and her
son for the son of the Bond woman shall
not be Heir with my son namely with
Isaac so it actually happened the reason
she's gone now I got to say Ishmael was
there at Abraham's death he actually
conducted part of the funeral so I mean
it wasn't totally out of his life but no
inheritance significant inheritance but
I want to say this about this this
concept there will always be those who
will divorce themselves from the church
and from Christ for the sake of
money there will always be those who
will quit Church to make more money and
they will avoid hearing anything about
money in fact I've known people
virtually quit church because you're
talking about giving don't want to hear
that don't hear anything about that sort
of thing so I'm just telling you it
happens you may be shocked that that
happens but it does happen the second
one I want you to see is that Christ in
his church may be divorced not just
about an Earthly inheritance but about
an Earthly Freedom this is an
interesting passage this is after the
Ten Commandments in Exodus 21: 1-6 but
if you buy a Hebrew servant that is that
is one of your fellow Hebrews if you buy
a Hebrew servant He Shall Serve six
years that's the maximum you could have
a Hebrew or one of your fellow uh Hebrew
people as a slave He Shall Serve six
years and in the seventh he shall go out
free and pay nothing well that's
interesting but that's not what we're
looking at here verse three if he comes
in by himself he shall go out by himself
right if he comes in married then his
wife shall go out with him great verse
four if his master has given him a wife
and she has borne him Sons or daughters
the wife wife and her children shall be
her Masters and he shall go out by
himself now that means if he leaves in
that situation he just left that wife
you pick that up that's exactly what
that means but if the servant plainly
says I love my master I love my wife and
my children I will not go out free then
his master shall bring him to the judges
and he shall also bring him to the door
or to the the doorpost and his master
shall pierce his ear with an all and he
shall serve him forever to keep stay
with his wife but listen to what the law
allowed allow allowed him just for a
sake of freedom to be free of that woman
and the children and that man now here's
the truth there will always be those who
will divorce themselves from Christ and
the church for the sake of what they
call
Freedom to live as they please to do as
they wish religion and the Bible can be
too restricted for people they will feel
like oh I feel restricted they're always
telling me what I can do this happens a
lot of times to our teenagers they do
whatever their parents say go along with
it go off to college I'm done with that
throw it off and they're gone and never
go to a church
again that's the idea of divorcing
Christ and his church for the sake of
their own Freedom oh yes it does happen
number three Christ and his church may
be divorced for an Earthly abuse this is
also in that Exodus 21 again this is
under the law of Moses verses 7- 11 it
says and if a man sells his daughter to
be a female slave she shall not go out
as the male slaves do if she does not
please her master who has betrothed her
to himself then he shall let her be
redeemed he shall have no right to sell
her to a foreign people since he ha
dealt deceitfully with her verse n and
if he has betrothed her to his son now
this is a man who has a young girl that
now is uh his slave if he has betrothed
her to his son going to marry his son he
shall deal with her according to the
custom of daughters so just as if he she
even if she's a foreigner and she has
now been purchased she is owned by this
man you deal with her like he's even
among your own family verse 10 here's
the interesting part verse 10 if he
takes another wife so again law Moses
you're allowed to have multiple wives
right listen to the last part of this
because the Jews use this particular
argument as an a reason to this day that
you can get a divorce for a couple of
these reasons it says if he takes
another wife he shall not diminish her
food her clothing or marital rights and
if he does not do these three for her
she shall go out free without pay paying
money and now she gets set free and she
was a slave and she has to pay nothing
just because he reduced any of the
things he's obligated to what's a man
obligated to give to his wife according
to that text food clothing and conjugal
rights this the conjugal rights are so
important because you had to be a have
children that's your Social Security
that's your retirement package so there
will always be those who are willing to
divorce themselves from Christ and the
church for the sake of their sense of
being abused in this text that would be
considered abuse if you diminished my
food my clothing or my conjugal rights
you would be abusing me and by the way
this is an argument for getting out of a
relationship that is abusive but these
women that's what would happen to them
and they could get out of that so the
woman I know a lot of people will tell
you in the Old Testament a woman could
not divorce her husband this is a clear
case of a woman divorcing her husband so
a lot of people talk that don't know
what the Bible actually teaches okay
just remember that so this is a clear
case of woman doing that very thing
there will always be those who will
divorce themselves from Christ and the
church for their sense of being abused
I'm going to tell you straight up there
are people who feel like the church or
somebody at church is Abus them somebody
hurt my feelings somebody wasn't nice to
me somebody talk to me just right
somebody wasn't sweet to me and they
will quit the church over somebody at
church who wasn't the way they ought to
be at church what a silly thing to do
folks what a silly thing to do but
people will do it people will accuse
they'll accuse you oh well you don't let
women lead the church or you are you
won't let me be an elder here okay folks
there are people who will quit because
they will feel abused just because they
feel abused and then they'll justify it
want to come back to that
self-justification because everything
I'm talking about if you really
listening to what I'm saying each one of
these is a self justification
purpose listen to it carefully it's a
lie you tell yourself number four church
and Christ may be divorced for an
Earthly betrayal here's another reason
in the Old Testament that people would
get out of a relationship it's in
Deuteronomy 22: 13- 21 says if a man
takes a wife now he's already been betro
to her and goes in because he's called
his wife and goes into her and and
detests her that means he finds out what
he's fixed to say the next thing and
charges her with shameful conduct in
other words she wasn't a virgin she had
been running around and brings a bad
name on her and says I took this woman
and when I came to her I found she was
not a virgin verse 15 then the father
and mother of the young woman shall take
and bring out the evidence of the young
woman's virginity to the Elders of the
city at the gate they actually kept uh
the bed clothing verse 16 and the young
woman's father father shall say to the
elders I gave my daughter to this man as
wife and he detests her now he has
charged her with shameful conduct saying
now by the way he could have probably
gotten a divorce just by saying he
detest her we'll get to that in a moment
but nonetheless he's charging her with
shameful conduct that she had not been
found a virgin he said I found your
daughter was not a virgin I'm verse uh
17 now Deuteronomy 22 and yet these are
the evidences of my daughter's virginity
and they shall spread the cloth before
the elders the City verse 18 then the
Elders of the city shall take that um
man and punish him so he's going to be
punished but there's more and verse 19
and they shall find him 100 shekels of
silver and give them to the father of
the young woman because he has been
offended because he's brought a bad name
on a virgin of Israel and she shall be
his wife he cannot divorce her all his
days because he's made a false
accusation verse 20 but if the thing is
true and evidence of The Virginity are
not found for the Young woman then they
shall bring out the young woman to the
door of her father's house and the men
of the city shall Stone her to death
with stones and you say oh well then
they had to kill her no you remember uh
Joseph wasn't going to kill Mary he was
accusing her of the same kind of thing
because she has done a disgraceful thing
in Israel to play the Harlot in her
father's house so you shall put away the
evil from among you he was not going to
do that so you didn't have to kill her
but you could have killed her but the
point is is that it was for a betrayal
and there will always be those uh that
will try to divorce the church or to try
to divorce Christ out of their life
because the sake they feel like they've
been betrayed somebody
wasn't friendly to them the way they
felt they should and they won to
apologize they've heard them and they
will not make it right folks listen to
me I'm going to tell you a little secret
somebody in the church is going to do
you wrong
and they're never going to say
sorry wake
up don't quit the
church you hearing
me it's going to happen if it ain't
happened it's coming into a theater near
you okay you don't get to quit just C
somebody won't apologize just because
you feel like you were betrayed by
somebody at church don't
quit number five Christ in his church
may be divorced for an Earthly
uncleanness that's what comes up in
Deuteronomy 24 1-4 when a man takes a
wife and marries her and it happens that
she find no favor in his eyes because he
found some
uncleanness in her and he writes her a
certificate of divorce but he puts it in
her hand and sends her out of his house
when she had departed from her house and
goes and becomes another man's wife
which of course she can because she's
been divorced she's no longer married
verse three if the latter husband tests
her and writes her a certificate if ific
of divorcement puts it in her hand and
sends her out of his house or if the
latter husband dieses who took her as
the wife then her former husband who
divorced her must not take her back to
be his wife after she has been defiled
that matter of uncleanness for that is
an Abomination before the Lord and you
shall not bring sin on the land which
the Lord your God is giving you as an
inheritance there will always be those
who will try to divorce themselves from
Christ and the church for the sake of a
desire for
uncleanness there's always going to be
something unclean you say well what's
uncleanness well in the text it never
defines what uncleanness is so it's any
sin it's a problem you say well what
sins could be a problem there's a
thousand sins that can become a problem
if you don't understand that so a
thousand reasons that people will use
they want to do things they refuse to
give their sin up and because the church
is harping on the thing that they do
then I don't want to be around that
anymore
that's a thousand things matter of
uncleanness number six Christ and his
church may be divorced for an Earthly
unbelief this is an interesting one this
is Jeremiah 3: 1-10 and in this text
it's God violating his own law of
Deuteronomy 24 it's which kind
interesting if you want to read
something to be interesting read
Deuteronomy 24 and then Jeremiah chapter
3 because God violates his own law it
says uh Jeremiah 3:1 says they say if a
man divorc es his wife and she goes from
him and becomes another man's may he
return to her again would not that the
land be greatly polluted but you have
played the Harlot with many uh lovers
yet return to me says the Lord so the
very thing that he would didn't want
them to do he's going to do with his
people verse six dropping down that text
I don't have time to read the whole
thing verse six says the Lord said also
to me in the days of Josiah the king
have you seen what black backsliding
Israel has done she has gone on every
high mountain and under every Green Tree
this is referring to worshiping other
gods and there played the Harlot so it's
not talking about literally playing the
Harlot it's mainly about giving
themselves over to other Faith or giving
up on the faith that they had verse
seven and I said after she had done all
these things return to me come back to
me even though you committed adultery
with a false god but she did not return
and her treacherous sin Judas saw it
then I saw that for all all the causes
for which backsliding Israel had
committed adultery I put her away and
given her a certificate of divorce yet
her treacherous sister Judah did not
fear but went and played the Harlot oel
as you know God basically disowned the
northern kingdom and it was taken away
in three different carryings away later
Judas carried away in three different
carryings away into Babylonian captivity
verse N9 so it came to pass through her
casual harlotry that she'd defile the
land and committed to adultery with
stones and trees again idolatry verse 10
and yet for all this her treacherous
sister Judah has not turned to me with
her whole heart but in pretense so even
her turning judah's turning away from
that it was only in
pretense there will always be those who
will divorce themselves from Christ in
the church for the sake of not believing
I'm going to say something here that may
shock some of you there people sitting
here tonight that don't believe what we
believe I've known deacons that didn't
believe in God told me
so so don't be shocked I know you think
I don't know what I'm talking about I'm
telling you straight up everybody that
says they believe don't believe some
folks say they believe and they're just
Fain pretending it and they don't
actually believe it you can tell it by
the way they live but nonetheless there
will always be those for the sake of
believe not believing the Bible or
believing virtually nothing they may be
agnostic or atheist almost but
nonetheless they will quit the church
because of unbelief they may use other
religions as their excuse but really
they just don't want to have anything to
do with what we
believe that's for
real number seven Christ and his church
may be divorced for an Earthly
immorality ity now this is the passage
that you know familiar with because we
live under Christ and everything I've
talked about before this was either the
Old Law or under the patriarchal system
Matthew 5: 31-32 it says furthermore it
has been said whoever divorces his wife
let him give her a certificate of a
divorce but I say to you that whoever
divorces his wife for any reason except
sexual immorality causes her to commit
adultery and whoever marries a woman
whose divorce commits adultery here's
the though there will always be those
who will divorce themselves from Christ
and the church for the sake of a desire
to be immoral
fornication
adultery
homosexuality and trans stuff that's
going on today all of that will be
justified and it's back to my point
remember what I said every one of these
people self- justify themselves every
time you've ever seen anybody quit the
church listen I've got a lot of
experience in this every time anybody
ever quits Christ and quits the church
they feel
Justified I know that's a shocker you
would think they wouldn't feel they feel
justified in what they're
doing whether it's for inheritance or
money freedom they just want to do
whatever they want to do abuse oh
somebody's mistreated me betrayal
somebody betrayed me at church
uncleanness I want to be able to do
whatever I want to do and I don't want
anybody telling me not to do it unbelief
I don't actually believe what they
believe up there or
immorality they feel
Justified let me give you an example of
this you know as in all
divorces the one that files for the
divorce almost always feels
Justified even if they're the one that
committed
adultery I know that may come as a shock
you you probably not dealt with these
people quite as much but just about
everybody thinks they're right in what
they
did it reminds me of how people make
excuses about
work because if I'm late I have a good
reason for example 51% of all excuses
for not being to work on time is traffic
okay uh 31% of all being late to work is
is well I overslept this
morning uh 28% is well the weather was
bad okay but here's some that I think
you'll appreciate more these are actual
excuses that have been made for people
who were late to work here's one I was
here I drove here I parked in the
parking lot and then I fell
asleep another one is my fake eyelashes
stuck together
another one is an astrologer warned me
of a car accident on the highway so I
had to take all the back
roads these are real this is not these
are real excuse here's the best one
though I had morning sickness this was a
man gave that as a reason had morning
sick I guess he didn't know what morning
sickness was why people believe they're
lies why do people believe their own why
do people believe their own
self-justification why do they do that
cuz you know it's a
lie it really is a lie why do people
believe
it uh according to Nautilus which has
done a science piece on this they looked
into what happens to our brains when we
don't tell the truth here's what they
discovered it turns out that the more
you lie the more truthful the LIE seems
to
you because while a lie might initially
appear to the brain as a lie and the
fabricated memory set off your brain's
alarm system over time the source
mentoring fatigues it literally your
brain fatigues with each FIB you tell so
lying ends up cementing the false
details of the expense of the real ones
psychologist Quinn cobach said this if a
lie or a fabrication provides an
explanation for something it's more
likely to become confused with what's
true people are casual monsters we love
knowing why things happened and if we
don't have an explanation for something
we like filling in the
gaps we lie to
ourselves this pressing human need to
fill these gaps are part of the reason
we end up believing our own
lies psychology Professor Carri TR said
this if I tell the lie to multiple
people I'm rehearsing the LIE the more
you repeat something the more you
actively imagine it the more detailed
and the more Vivid it becomes
it becomes more real to
you which further exploits the brain's
tendency to
conflate uh details with veracity in
other words the more details you give to
your lie the more you feel like you're
telling the
truth the process is at work in every
self-rationalizing and self-justifying
thing that we do listen to me you may
not think you do this but there's
probably not a person in here that
doesn't lie to themselves or to others
occasionally we tend to justify what we
did and we tell the story slightly
brighter for us than we do the other
person pay attention I'm not talking
about the other person I'm talking about
you and
me so what we believe to be true about
our ends up being being kind of false
because we're plagued by this faulty
wiring thing where we keep telling the
same story enough that even we start
believing
it regularly confessing therefore listen
to this this is summary of that study
regularly confessing one's Frailty in
this regard might just reset the brain's
falsehood fatigue and bring you closer
to the truth that sets you free what
does that mean be
quicker to admit maybe you got it
wrong maybe I'm misremembering
it stop self-justifying else you too may
end up at some point in your life
thinking that you have a right to
divorce the church or to divorce Christ
and to stop going
because X Y and
Z and now because X Y and Z is now ABCDE
e f g h i j k you've come up with more
stuff that you tagged on to it and now
you feel absolutely just in fact you can
feel so Justified that you will even
condemn the Lord over something he might
have said to be right it becomes so
important for you to be right that you
will justify yourself no matter what now
listen to me what I want to say to y'all
all of y'all by the way all of those of
you who are still here who haven't
actually done this you haven't actually
done this you've not divorced Christ
you've not divorced the church you're
still trying to be faithful to him
listen to be encouraged you're on the
right path just don't go down that path
of
self-justification when someone
challenges something You' said be quick
to say you know I might have got that
wrong might have been wrong about that
because if you don't do that
if you don't do that self-justifying
lead to getting rid of the rest of us
cuz one of us is going to offend you
sooner or
later one of us going to say
something or do something that wasn't
just right for you it's going to
happen you might not been perfect in it
either but can you accept
that and are you willing to
accept that maybe I'm
wrong invitations are for those willing
to confess sin can I tell you the big
lie you don't need to confess any
sin you hear it you ain't done anything
wrong there's nothing you should ever
confess to anybody
that's the big
line that's that little person inside of
you saying well yeah
but that's why the Bible calls us to
humility and confession of
sin if you're here tonight and you need
to come forward we'll pray for you but
you know what there's not a person in
here probably that couldn't come
forward and ask for prayer for
something
so let's be a little more humble amen
and don't self justify and end up
divorcing Christ in his church
