so uh you may
not love your work that may be may sound
wrong to you uh and that could be due to
a lot of things it could be due to what
your work
involves uh maybe it's just difficult or
who you must work for someone who could
be difficult or who you must must work
with maybe the people that you work with
are not helpful it could be the system
that you're in sometimes systems do not
the systems at work uh do not follow the
line that they should but after all it's
not always supposed to be fun because
work is work and it isn't something that
we generally do for free because it is
work uh my work I want to make this
really clear to you tonight because some
people question this my work is not to
be a
comedian and I probably need to prove
that can I prove that to you I know some
of you believe that I'm supposed to be
really funny let me prove to you that my
work is not to be a comedian here's a
few efforts a Mexican M magician said he
would disappear on the count of three he
said Uno do poof he disappeared Without
a
Trace it's hard to explain puns to
kleptomaniacs because they always take
things
literally why don't ants get
sick because they have little
antibodies what happens when the pirate
attempts to recite the alphabet he
usually gets lost at
C I having fun
yet how do you tell the gender of an
ant you put it in a glass of water if it
sinks it's a girl ant if it floats it's
boy
ant what's the difference between
in-laws and
outlaws Outlaws are
wanted just rewatch may you ever watched
it just rewatch Benjamin Button again
never gets
old had to watch the movie you otherwise
had to make
it why was the Scarecrow awarded a Nobel
Prize because he was outstanding in his
field what do you call a fish with no
eyes that's right I heard somebody say
that that's good one what do you call a
lion who feels
Dandy a Dandy lion good say y'all are
humorous where where do bad rainbows go
prism it's a light
sentence no matter how much you push the
envelope it'll still be
stationary a Man rushed into a doctor's
surgery shouting please help me right
now I can't wait I'm shrinking the
doctor calmly said to him now settle
down down a bit you'll just have to
learn to be a little
patient now aren't you happy my work is
not comedy next
time yeah it may surprise you kind of
did me actually I wasn't really looking
this way uh when I started studying this
what it's called the gift of God in the
word of God let me show
you God's only son is called called the
gift of
God John 4:10 Jesus answered and said to
her if you knew the gift of God and who
it is who says to you give me a drink
you would have asked him and he would
have given you living
water God's miraculous ability is called
the gift of God acts 8 verse2 but Peter
said to him your money perish with you
because you thought the gift of God
could be purchased with money God's
eternal life is called the gift of God
Romans 6:23 for the wages of sin is
death but the gift of God is eternal
life in Christ Jesus our lord and God's
gracious salvation is called the gift of
God Ephesians 2 and ver8 for by Grace
you have been saved through faith and
that not of yourself it is the gift of
God but what might surprise you is that
work labor
jobs
businesses are called the gift of God in
scripture did you know that considered
the gift of God so we're going to look
at six reasons why you should maybe love
your work and here they are number
one love your work for it is the gift of
God and it is for your
food it's what the scriptures say
Ecclesiastes 3:12 says I know that
nothing is better for them than to
rejoice and to do good in their lives
and also that every man should eat and
drink and enjoy the good of all his
labor it is the gift of
God the gift of God is both the labor
and the food in Ephesians I mean
Ephesians Ecclesiastes 5: 18 and 19 it
says here is what I've seen it is good
and fitting for one to eat and drink and
to enjoy the good of all of his labor in
which he toils under the sun all the
days of his life which God gives him for
it is his Heritage use we'll come back
to that later as for every man to whom
God has given riches and wealth and
given him power to eat of it that's an
important thing because me a few people
who had a lot of money and then couldn't
eat anything hardly to receive his
Heritage and rejoice was in his labor
this is the gift of God so to be able to
eat is a gift of God along with the
ability to work in 2 Thessalonians 3:
10-2 it says this for even when we were
with you we commanded you this if anyone
will not work neither shall he eat you
know that doesn't go over well in our
society but it's still true verse TW 11
says for we hear that there are some who
walk walk among you who uh in a
disorderly manner not working at all but
are busy bodies now those who are such
we command and exhort through our Lord
Jesus Christ that they work in quietness
and eat their own bread so the truth is
is that our food is the reward of our
work so you may not like your work it
may be difficult the reason you ate
today is is because of your work number
two love your work for it is the gift of
God and it is for your family it is the
thing you do for your family
Ecclesiastes 9: 9- 10 says live joyfully
with the wife whom you love all the days
of your vain life which he has given you
under the sun all your days of vanity
for that living joyfully with your wife
that is your portion in life and in the
labor which you perform Under the Sun so
the reason that you're able to have a
wife and I assure you if you don't work
you probably will not have one or you
might not keep one the truth is is that
they have to be taken care of just like
you have to be taken care of and the way
we do that is providing for them in fact
here it goes a little further in 1
Timothy 5 I'm read a couple of different
places here 1 Timothy 5 and: 7 which is
the passage we often quote on this
subject but if anyone does not provide
for his own and especially for those of
his household he has denied the faith
and is worse than an unbeliever if you
do not work and provide for your family
it's questioned whether or not you
believe anything but particularly you
don't care for your household as you
should and to add to that in verse four
it says this in that same chapter 1
Timothy 5 let them first learn to show
piety at home piety at home in this case
is giving to those within your family
what they need and to repay their
parents so that includes your parents
for this is good and acceptable before
God if any believing man or woman has
widows let them relieve them and do not
let the church be burdened that it may
relieve those who are really widows in
other words don't have anybody to help
them out so love your work for it's the
gift of God and it's for your family
it's for your food it's for your family
and thirdly love your work for it is the
gift of God and it is for your
fulfillment work is designed to make you
feel better about who you are
Ecclesiastes chapter by the way if you
don't believe that go a few months
without work see how it makes you feel
Ecclesiastes 3: 12 through1 13 I know
that nothing is better for them than to
rejoice and to do good in their lives
and also that every man should eat and
drink and enjoy the good of all his
labors it is the gift of God
Ecclesiastes 5: 18-20 says here is what
I have seen it is good and fitting for
one to eat and drink and to enjoy the
good of all his labor in which he toils
under the sun all the days of his life
which God gives him for it is his
heritage
as for every man to whom God has given
riches and wealth and given him power to
eat of it to receive his Heritage and
rejoice in his labor to listen to that
statement and to rejoice in his labor
that is the gift of God so just
rejoicing in what you get to do for he
will not dwell unduly on the days of his
life because God listen to this
statement this is Ecclesiastes 5:20 if
you need to go back and read it for he
will not dwell unduly on the days of his
of his life because God keeps him busy
with the joys of his heart now what that
means is it isn't good for you to have
nothing to do in
here so the idea of retiring and doing
nothing is not good in here the God
keeps us
busy why because he knows this brain
without God in it the way it will be
eventually doesn't work right it
fulfills us though to work
so number
four love your work for it is the gift
of God and it is for your fun so not
only is it for your food and your family
and your fulfillment it's for fun you're
actually supposed to have fun at work
believe it or not that's right
Ecclesiastes chapter 2 ver beginning of
verse four I made my works great I built
I planted I'm skipping some words here I
acquired verse eight I gathered
Treasures singers and musical
instruments I became great and excelled
so enjoyed excelling I excelled more
than all who were before me it isn't
wrong to enjoy excelling at your work
also my wisdom remained with me whatever
my eyes desired I did not keep from them
I did not withhold my heart from any
pleasure I enjoyed the results of my
work for my heart rejoiced in all all my
labor I loved what I was doing my heart
rejoiced in all my labor and this was my
reward from all my labor so to enjoy
your labor is a part of the reward that
we should see you're supposed to have
fun with it should be to some degree
joyous at Point that's not to mean every
bit of
it otherwise you wouldn't need to be
paid for it right but at certain points
you're supposed to say well I really
enjoyed that that was good
Ecclesiastes
8:15 so I commanded excuse me I just not
what it says so I
commanded enjoyment because a man has
nothing better Under the Sun than to eat
drink and be marry for this will remain
with him in his labor all the days of
his life which God gives him under the
sun to enjoy the fruits of your labor is
the gift from God and first Corinthians
7:31 and those who use this world as not
misusing it for the forms of this world
is passing away so as long as you use it
in the way you should so this isn't a
blanket statement that all work supposed
to be fine and no matter how what you do
out there but as long as it's not
misusing the things that God has given
you it's okay to actually have fun with
it number
five love your work for it is the gift
of God and it is for your future if
you're going to have one the work is the
pathway to it Proverbs
22:29 do you see a man who excels in his
work he will stand before Kings he will
not stand before unknown men now that
implies that if you work hard there will
be greater advancements in the future
potentially for you if you excel at it
it will Happ happen otherwise you will
not have a great future so it is
important not only that you work but you
do the best to excel at it Ecclesiastes
4:9 says two are better than one because
they have a good reward for their labor
so a reward is something you get later
there's a better reward for all of us if
we work hard and we work together
Ecclesiastes 5: 18 and 19 it is good and
fitting for one to eat and drink and to
enjoy the good of his labor in which he
TOS Under the Sun all the days of his
life which God gives him for it is his
Heritage and that's I told you I was
coming back to that in a minute here's
where I want to talk about it it is his
Heritage you know Heritage is like your
legacy your future what you leave behind
that a a good man leaves an inheritance
to his children's children according to
scripture so it is his Heritage verse 19
ask for every man to whom God has given
riches and wealth and given him power to
eat of it to receive his Heritage and
rejoice in his labor this is the gift of
God so there is to be a good man who
works is to have a future Heritage that
he leaves for those after him so it's
for your future let's go to the last
Point love your work for it is the gift
of God and it is for your faith
it speaks of your faith I already read a
passage a moment ago 1 Timothy 5 and
ver8 you saw that uh we'll come back to
uh some of that but 1 Timothy 5:8 if you
don't provide for your family you're
worse than an Infidel but let's let's
run down these scriptures 1 Corinthians
9 and verse 17 for it is for if I do
this willingly now he's talking about
his ministry particularly I have a
reward but if against my will this is
something that God had put on him I have
been been entrusted with the stewardship
now here's the truth now you may not
realize there's a parallel between you
and Paul not the same way I mean God
didn't lay his hand on you the way he
did on Paul and say you're going to do
this particular Ministry but let me
assure you he laid his hand on you
you're to work you're to work he
assigned that in Genesis chapter 3 if
you recall and that you wouldn't enjoy
it all the time it's also in Genesis
chapter 3 you'd sweat it'd be a strain
to you so that is since it's not
something you've taken on willfully you
didn't stand up on the day of judgment I
mean day of judgment on the day of
creation and say I'm Adam I want to work
I want to sweat I want to be in pain no
nobody did that so that didn't happen to
us so this is something you were
assigned I was assigned this is your
stewardship you are a steward of working
whether you like it or not now you can
have a good attitude like Paul says I
could have a good attitude or I can have
a negative attitude about it in
Ephesians 6:6 it says not with I Service
as men placers but as Bond Servants of
Christ doing the will of God from the
heart so I could be just somebody who
works when my boss is around or I could
be somebody who works when no one's
around because I'm not doing it for the
man I'm doing it for the lord it's a
change in heart it says something about
your faith if you're listening to me all
of this says something about whether or
not you have faith whether you're
approaching work as as if it's an evil
thing or if it speaks about your faith
in 2 Timothy chap 2 Timothy CH 1:6 it
says therefore I remind you to stir up
the gift of God and this is talking to
Timothy particularly about a gift he had
been given which is in you through the
laying on of my hands so whatever
ability you have God gave that to you
maybe not like his but we all have
abilities we all have gifts some of you
are tall God bless you I didn't get that
gift but everybody got gifts right
everybody's got something that they get
so it is the gift of God it was given to
you Stir It Up use it for the way you
can 1 Timothy 4:14 do not neglect the
gift that is in you which was given to
you by Prophecy with the laying on of
the hands of the eldership so in this
case that's talking about some kind of
ministry that Timothy was assigned by an
eldership and this gift is something
that we have uh this would be a message
to all Elders it'd be a message to all
deons all Elders the only reason you're
an elder is because we as a church
appointed you you wouldn't be an elder
if we didn't appoint you and as a result
of that we appointed you by the will of
God by the word of God and that's how
you became an elder so God appointed You
by us appointing you the same could be
said of all the deacons here and anybody
else who's been given a job or
assignment in this church it has been
done by the hands if you will of the
Elders of the leadership of this church
it is the gift of God therefore that you
have an opportunity to serve and the way
way you serve speaks volumes about your
faith or the lack thereof 2 Corinthians
8: 10-1 it says this and is this I give
advice and in this excuse me I give
advice it is to your advantage not only
to be doing what you began this is
talking about a commitment that the
Corinthian Church and Macedonian
churches had made a year before it is
your advantage not only to be doing what
you began setting aside something and
we're Desiring to do a year ago you said
oh you wanted to really help in this
service to the Saints verse 11 but now
also must complete the doing of it you
can't make a commitment and not make an
effort to finish it that is there was a
Readiness to desire it so there also may
be a completion out of what you have so
here's the thing it's all great and good
to say oh I want to have a career I want
to do this but you got to you got to
stick in there you got to grunt growl
get through it whatever you got to do to
keep in that job to complete it that's a
sign of
Faith young people you're going to hate
some of your work finishing it is a sign
of
Faith Jude not chapter 2 chapter 1 verse
6 says and the angels who did not keep
their proper domain but left their own
Abode he has reserved an everlasting
change under the darkness for the
Judgment of the great day now I know
what that's talking
about that something the Angels did I
have no idea what that was but I do know
that it was something they were supposed
to be doing they were assigned to do
they had a place to serve they were
given something to do and they left it
they quit it not with permission they
just quit don't be a
quitter it's a sign of your faith you
don't ever stick through with stuff and
finish out stuff
say something about your faith sorry
doesn't just say something about your
attitude say something about your faith
don't be a quitter so here we go this is
the list of things work is the gift of
God because as a result of your work you
should love your work because it is how
you get your food it's how you keep your
family it's how you have fulfillment in
many ways you would not have without
work it is fun at times not all the time
it provides for your future and it
speaks volumes about your faith that's
one of the one of the things you need to
see now if you look at that list now it
is the gift of
God it really is the gift of God you
said but I I thought it was part of the
curse now that's the sweating part
that's the thorns and the thistles part
but the idea of having work he' already
assigned that they were to dress and
keep the garden you remember that they
were already assigned work before they
were ever cursed so work is not the
curse there's a curse attached to work
but work is not a curse work is a gift
of
God wishbones at work are there and all
they ever do is wish somebody else would
do the work jawbones at work are there
and all they ever do is talk and they do
very little else knuckle bones are at
work because uh they're always knocking
those people who are actually doing the
work and then there's backbones at work
who shoulder the load and get the work
done no matter what no matter how they
feel they just stick in and get the work
done which one are you which kind of
bone are
you successful people this is a study
that I read successful people have often
done their best work in a coffee shop
did you know that in a coffee
shop maybe if you're not being you're
not
succeeding go get a cup of coffee sit
down in a coffee shop it's been proven I
mean you can look at some of the names
I've got up there JK ring for example
people across the nation centuries have
tapped into this creative moment do
something if you're if you're struggling
to get your work done in a way that is
really uh accomplishing something you
feel good about the creat try changing
your environment give it a different
shot maybe go get a cup of coffee I
don't know but try something to improve
your environment just a little bit
because one of the big things is if you
hate the environment you work in you're
not going to work as hard that's just
the way it is you got to kind of
contribute to your environment I want to
talk to you about a brother I I've
listed him up here Paul hunt let me tell
you more about him than I put up there
Paul David Hunt Paul David Hunt's gone
on to be with Jesus he was one of our
deacons in at East tacy de will remember
him he was an awesome guy he's also our
janitor for the building he is great
super guy he had been a really important
person at one point I I don't know how
important quite honestly I just know
that he worked for one of the big oil
companies and he worked in the uh like
CFO position he was pretty important but
he lived a him and his wife lived a very
quiet meager life now in a little town
called taly
Alabama I'll never forget we were in the
hallway one day and we were talking and
I I don't know what what inspired him
but he said U my boss who had been like
the head of oil company might shell or
something like that literally the head
of the oil company said he said you know
there's at least three rules about
workers and Paul said you know I paid
real close attention because he didn't
say much stuff like that so he said
three rules he said you always want at
least three workers that most folks
don't think you need said the first work
worker you need is a lazy
worker now most people most companies
think you don't need a lazy worker he
said but you always need lazy workers
why do you want a lazy worker he said
well we don't give them any thing
important to do and you don't pay them a
lot he said but you give them something
push in a broom something like that
because they're going to just barely do
that he said but that's not their value
see their value is there's something
going on in your plant that's really
hard to do and you y'all just wearing
your people out they're they're
struggling what you do is you take them
off the room you put him in that section
and you make him help them watch him for
two weeks tell everybody in the area
watch him I mean we're all doing the
same work right but you watch him he
said he'll figure out the laziest way to
get that work done and said tell them
all to do it that way because it was the
easiest way to get it done it won't wear
everybody
out I thought it was pretty good I said
well what's the other ones he said well
uh you always want a new guy why do you
want a new guy he said well you always
want somebody that doesn't know what's
going
on really you always want somebody at
your plant who has no idea what's going
on at your plant he going he really
don't even understand anything that's
going on what good would that be he says
because there's always something at the
plant that nobody can figure out how to
do I mean we're trying to do it but
every time we've tried we failed
everybody in the plants tried it but
this guy he doesn't know that so you
take him into that section whatever it
is and you tell him you get that done
you don't get that done you probably
won't have a job in two weeks we want
you to figure out how to get this done
and you don't keep everybody away from
him let him work by himself he says
you'd be surprised how often a fell
that's given that big of a motivation
and everybody stays out of his way he's
liable to figure out how to get that
done but because he's the new guy and he
hadn't heard all the stories about how
we can't do it he hadn't heard about all
the reasons it's failed and all the many
times it didn't work he hadn't heard
that stuff and all of a sudden next
thing you know he's figured it out it's
like I heard one guy he took a they had
a pie a piece of metal and they had a
ring over here and they couldn't get the
piece of metal in the ring and nobody
could figure it out but this one guy
next morning came back in he had the the
rod in the piece of metal and everybody
how in the world did you do that nobody
could figure it out it had just been
machined and we got a thousand of them
and we just been machined just a little
too much he said well just put the rod
in the refrigerator over overnight and
it struck and I stuck it right in no
problem he didn't know he didn't know it
couldn't be done and so I said he went
on to say well what's the third guy he
said well the third guy that you always
got to have you always got to have
somebody that's lazy you always got to
have somebody that's new and you always
got to have some somebody that's been
there
forever why do you need him well he's
the only one that actually knows what
needs to be done he says most the bosses
don't actually know what needs to be
done but the guy that's been there
forever he actually knows what's really
important he figured it out a long time
ago and most of the bosses don't know
what's really important but he's worked
there day in and day out he actually
knows go talk to him find out what's
really important you may save your
company my point of mentioning the whole
story is simply this
I believe every
worker has a value to offer how about
that every
worker as long as to make an
effort and I think we should enjoy our
work whatever work you've been given and
I want to focus this now just slightly
different I know it sound like all I
talking about as your work out you under
but I think the work here you need to
have equal effort and desire for
whatever we ask you to do here or
whatever you volunteer to do love
it it's easy to go you know I just can't
believe the way they do did you hear
what they said I can't believe they're
thinking to do that anybody can do
that but can you have a good attitude
can you do the best anyway there's the
question can you do that I hope you'll
will try to love whatever you do here
whatever you do out there it's all about
how you feel about it right here and
we've shown you some reasons you should
know that it's the gift of God if you're
here tonight and have never named Christ
you haven't received the true gift of
God which is salvation of Jesus Christ
pointed that out a moment ago would you
like to do that repenting of your sins
confessing Christ and being baptized
tonight love to help anybody that's in
that area if you need to come come while
we stand and while we sing
