now Paul David trip who wrote this
series this book his statement for this
particular principle is as a parent
you're not dealing just with bad
behavior but a condition that causes bad
behavior so what is the true condition
of your child biblically your kids your
people your family uh well Genesis 6:
6-9 reveals that they are
cursed that's right your little child is
cursed can't do anything about it
they've been
cursed uh the first thing was awareness
of nakedness when they were willing to
eat of that
tree guilt shame hiding from God
blaming others for what you did being
deceived uh animals started dying that's
right animals die because of the curse
we created as humans dying is a curse of
it sorrow pain desire to control other
people is part of the curse being
dominated is a part of the curse
friction with your mate is a part of the
curse nature and elements working
against you is a part of the curse so if
you wonder why is it always happening to
me cuz you're under a curse sorry uh
being pierced and pricked by troubles
and strains and thorns and thistles
there are strains and there's stresses
and there's death and there's separation
from God and all of that together is a
part of the curse and your little child
that you think is so sweet is under a
curse what is the true condition of your
child biblically is that it no that's
not it they are
evil I know sweet little thing like
that they know
good but they know
evil and every last child out there
every parent out there has the same
Affliction so here's some scripture that
says that Genesis
3:22 then the Lord God said behold the
man has become like one of us to know
good and evil and I won't blunt that
word evil evil I am looking at people
who struggle with evil
evil Genesis 8:21 this is uh NIV puts it
this way and I thought it was better it
says every inclination of the human
heart is evil from Child childhood so
this idea well I was a child I wasn't
evil no listen to me I'm not saying
you're accountable from being a baby I'm
not condemning anybody to being lost
Matthew 18 makes it clear their Angels
do always behold the face of God we
should repent we should change we should
be converted and become like little
children but little children are also
evil and that's the truth Romans 31-20
listen to what it says as it is written
there is none righteous by the way that
includes
children as you can't
none there is none righteous no not one
what about Jesus when he is a baby well
he wasn't a a son of a man he was a Son
of God and so he was different from
birth and verse 11 it says there is none
who understands there is none who seeks
after God
none they we have to focus them that
direction they have all turned aside
they have together become unprofitable
and if you're not a good parent if you
think your child's evil now and you
don't parent them properly you can't
imagine how evil that little thing can
become there is none who does good no
not one their throat is an open Tomb
with their tongues they have practice
deceit you tell them oh little children
won't lie they'll lie to you when the
crib they'll cry when they're not
nothing wrong with them act like a
bear's got them and they know they've
they know they're manipulating you and
the poison of ASP is under their lips
whose mouth is full of cursing and
bitterness what don't listen closely to
what your children say about you verse
15 their feet are Swift to shed blood
they'll hurt people destruction and
misery are in their ways and the way of
peace they have not known there is no
fear of God Before Their Eyes you have
to put that in them verse 19 now we know
that whatever the law says it says to
those who are under the law that every
mouth may be stopped and all the world
may become guilty before God therefore
by the Deeds of the law no flesh will be
justified in his sight for by the law is
the knowledge of sin and they certainly
will know about Sin before it's over
with now do they fully understand it
when they're little no that's why we say
they're not accountable but that doesn't
mean they're not doing wrong in Romans
5:2 it says this therefore just as
through through one man sin entered the
world and death through sin and thus
death spread to all men because all sin
you think that's only talking about
adults you never seen a a child die you
don't think that's true of them too that
they have the tendency to want to sin or
to be evil Isaiah 48:8 surely you did
not hear you did not know from long ago
your ear was not open for I knew that
you would deal very treacherously and
they were called a transgressor from the
womb it's what it says you ignore
scripture that says to us like that but
it's actually in there Matthew 7:1 it
says if you then and now he's talking to
the people of God who are following god
listen to what he says this would be
like me up here speaking to you right
now if you then being
evil know how to give good gifts to your
children how much more will your father
who is in heaven give good things to
those who ask him that's right Jesus
called the people in his audience
evil I didn't call him that he did it's
not my place to say stuff like that
Matthew 12: 33-35 says this either make
the tree good and its fruit good or else
make the tree bad and its fruit bad for
a tree is known by its fruit that's
really important verse 34 brood of
vipers how can you being evil speak good
things for out of the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaks a good man out of
the good Treasure of his heart brings
forth good things and an evil man out of
the evil treasure brings forth evil
things now that isn't to say that your
children are totally evil or
hereditarily totally depraved the Bible
doesn't teach that but to say that they
don't have evil in them the Bible
doesn't teach that either you need to
understand though you're dealing with
evil and evil is an issue we all
struggle with well what are the two big
lives that every evil child ends up
believing
autonomy I have the absolute right to
live the way I want to live and the
absolute right to do what I want and if
you don't think your children believe
that you've never seen them I'll tie my
own shoe right I make my decisions 1
Corinthians 10:23 says it this way NIV
says I have the right to do anything you
say but not everything is beneficial I
have the right to do anything but not
everything is constructive we all tend
to think that way think about how you
think when somebody gets in your way you
need to get out of my way start beeping
the horn if it's a line and somebody
steps in front of your line who do you
think you are going to we act like we're
the one that matters and nobody else
matters and that's not good that's
within us that's this autonomy thing
that we think we have an absolute right
to live the way I want to live and
nobody has the right to get in the way
of what I want to
do self-sufficiency is the next problem
I have all I need in myself and I can
tie my own shw and I don't need
anybody well Romans 14:7 puts it this
way none of us lives for ourselves alone
and none of us dies for ourselves alone
so that's an lie so the idea that you're
autonomous and you're totally
independent and you can do whatever you
want is a lie and the idea that you are
self-sufficient and you get along and
you don't need anybody that's a lie none
of us makes it that way so what do your
evil children
need and I know probably nobody in here
especially children like me saying it
but what do your evil children need they
need
Insight from God to see themselves as
they really are this idea about oh
Johnny is such a good little boy and he
does do anything wrong it must be your
kid that's doing something wrong that's
just a lie and parents oh my my Johnny's
got a blue ribbon he's the best kid in
the class come
on Insight parents need to realize what
you're dealing with compassion from
parents who understand their own
condition so look in the mirror you're
evil too you struggle with evil too your
children aren't the only on struggling
with evil you're struggling with evil
quit acting like you go to church and
you don't have a struggle with evil
you're in church right now and every
last one of you got e evil within you
quit acting like you don't you struggle
with it every day if you didn't you
wouldn't sin ever again you know it's
true you just don't want to admit it and
you certainly don't want to see it at
church because that might imply I'm
saved by
grace hope they need hope they need in
Insight they need compassion
and they need Hope from their parental
allies we ought to be their allies
because we're in the same battle who we
should support them and guide them and
protect them because we've already
walked through the Minefield and we know
kind of what's ahead of them and we need
to help them they need to be rescued
from their fallen state by grace and
transformed by Christ and listen just
because I've been transformed doesn't
mean I don't have a battle with evil I
still this is what Paul is just talking
about he he's been transformed he's a
child of God and he's telling you what I
want to do I don't do what I don't want
to do that's what I do you telling me
he's not struggling with evil what in
the world you think he's doing and then
wisdom from the guidance of scripture
and those that love him by the way don't
try to don't try to think that you could
raise your kids without
us that's a Fool's errand you need all
the help you can get every bit you can
get you need good old men coming up to
your little boys and your little girls
saying oh you're such a good little kid
even if they're a monster you need to
tell they need to hear the possibility
they need to hear encouragement I know
tonight it's going to sound like
discouragement I'm just trying to be
honest with you so that you can
understand what you're dealing with but
they need encourage they need wisdom
they need to hear what well well we had
that same problem with our little Johnny
and uh we just did this I'm not g to say
what we might have done but we did this
maybe you can try that right wisdom now
from Paul we find eight evil principles
in the text we're going to look at so
this gives parents I think some insight
into your children and into your own
soul and what your true condition is
what my true condition is that I
struggle with evil every day still
struggling with it and you do too and
so we have knowledge of good praise the
Lord so I don't believe we're hereditary
totally depraved I don't believe that I
don't believe that we're not totally
depraved or we couldn't think of good he
didn't say we had only a knowledge of
evil that tree gave us a knowledge of
Good and Evil so we can do good you're
little kids can do good things they can
do they can be pretty good little kids
that can happen but that's with your
help and everybody's help so we have a
knowledge of good we have a knowledge of
evil let's walk through it so it looks
like somebody's changing the things for
me so that's great we'll go to the next
one there we go so the evil principles
give insight into children's condition
as dying it's an important truth your
child's dying you got no guarantees your
child will live to be 80 this this idea
that your child's not dying will drive
you nuts if your child dies when they're
small because every child's under that
listen to what he says in verse 13 has
then what is good become death to me
certainly not but sin that it might
appear sin was producing death in me
through what is good so that sin through
the Commandment might become exceeding
sinful our babies as much as we love
them will die we are under a
curse we all die and little little
babies
die there's no
guarantee stop believing
that number
two the evil principle gives insight
into children's condition as carnal your
children are carnal verse 14 for we know
that the law is spiritual but I am
carnal so under sin now come back to
that word soul and understand a minute
but I'm carnal so what that basically
means carnal just means flesh you know
we use Carnival but it's basically flesh
so the flesh is the thing I struggle
with it's what you struggle with the
lust of the flesh the lust of the eyes
the boastful pride of life that's my
carnal being that's what Wants to Rule
and my spirit which hopefully has been
changed since I become a Christian is
fighting in against that and saying no
don't be that I know he was ugly to him
don't punch him in the nose you know
that kind of thing don't do that don't
go to the bar and get drunk don't take
drugs don't curse him out like a sailor
don't do that that's what my spirit's
saying but my body sometimes gets revved
up and all of a sudden it gets out of
control and I I let it go and then I've
done something evil not something just
bad evil quit thinking well he B he made
a mistake he did something bad no you
did Evil let's let's put it where it
really is you did
Evil and your child is carnal third
lesson it's important the evil principle
gives insight into children's condition
as sold your child's been
sold that's
right the child not only has been
sold but your child will sell themselves
every last one of you were sold that's
why you were redeemed you you ever heard
the word redeem so you were sold into
sin you were redeemed out of sin right
so follow it now This is Gospel now it
says for we know that the law is
spiritual but I am carnal sold under sin
so it is true that I've been sold under
Sin from childhood up that was
true but I can choose to sell my soul to
to the devil you said well I would never
do that I would never sell my soul to
the devil we sell our soul to the devil
every time we decide we're going to sin
anyway so this idea that I would never
do every time I decide I'm not going to
go to church anymore then I'm going to
go hang out with my friends you just
sold your so what s you so far the fun
that I'll have with
them I get high on drugs i s my sold to
the drugs that's right quit quit you
know we we so want to make ourselves
sound so good don't we we so we so want
to think we're really good at two shoes
but we're really not and that's the
truth and neither are your children
number
next the evil principles give insight
into children's condition is confused
that's right your children have no idea
what they're doing and I want to tell
you young people you have no idea what
you're doing I don't mean to be in
half the adults don't know what we're
doing listen and I'm talking about
Christians now we don't know what we're
doing by the time you figure out what
you do and you dead they used to say by
the time your face clears up your mind
goes that feels like where I'm at right
now Romans chapter 7: 15 16 and 17 says
for what I'm doing I don't understand
what this is the Apostle Paul for what I
am doing I do not understand I don't
even understand what I'm doing ever felt
that way ever done something wrong and
say what in the world what in a world
for what am I doing what what I am doing
I do not understand for what I will to
do that I do not practice but what I
hate that I do if then I do what I will
not do I agree with the law that is good
the Bible's right all that's true I
shouldn't be doing but now it is no
longer I do it but sin that dwells in me
I've just let sin control
me so the truth is um
the
old are not as blind to these
things but that didn't mean they're less
evil it it just over the process of
years you begin to realize kind of
what's going on and that's kind of where
Paul's at he's beginning to get it
figuring it
out but doesn't mean he's less
evil and if you think you've conquered
evil and you you're never going to sin
against you're just a good
liar you're just a good liar and you're
lying to yourself you
haven't you're just
confused number
next the evil principle gives inside
into children's condition as empty
they're empty oh they think they're
full but they're empty look at Verse 18
for I know that in me that is in my
flesh
nothing good
dwells for to will is present with me
but how to perform what is good I do not
find here's what I've learned this took
me I think I mentioned this a few weeks
ago when I had my problem I learned
without God there's no good at all in
me there's nothing worthy of anything
I'm EMP
the pockets that aren't evil pretty much
nothing I'm empty so I'm empty of the
good I need to
have there's nothing in me that is in my
flesh no good DW nothing good dwells
there number
next the evil principle gives insight
into children's condition as evil as we
just said listen to verses 19 the good
good that I will to do I do not do but
the evil I will not to do that I
practice so we practice
evil I'm not saying that you live for it
because you're a Christian most of you
are
Christians but if I do what I will not
to do it is no longer I who do it but
sin that dwells in me so sin dwells in
me evil dwells in
me and this is a Christian baptized
believer so don't say this is all before
you become a Christian and you're not
like this after that it's not that way
at all verse 21 I find then a law that
evil is present with me the one who
Wills to do good do y'all remember these
old cartoons I don't know if y'all
remember this I don't know if you're old
enough to remember used to be some
cartoons that would come on on Saturday
morning you'd have a little angel on one
side and a little devil on the other
right so no matter what you do all he
was trying to say is yeah good is always
present you have to CH you can choose to
do good but Evil's always there too by
the way and he says it's a law did you
pick up on that it's a law it's a
principle you cannot Escape it evil is
unavoidable you cannot Escape it you say
I'll get up on a mountain you can think
of evil on a mountain when you're all
alone and nobody else is there this idea
that you can get away from it in this
world is a lie you cannot go anywhere
well I'll fast for 40 days and nights
and I'll never have evil no you weren't
Jesus and you will still have a struggle
with evil once you get through fasting
40 days night might be slightly less for
a little while just like you spank a kid
I know that's anathema now but you spank
a kid you've noticed that they behave
really well for about a
week so you can you can have good
moments but you're going to go back and
do evil now hopefully you'll do less as
time goes on that's the sanctification
process of truly following the Lord and
so these people who are older are
hopefully sinning a whole lot less than
those you are younger hopefully
hopefully they are but that doesn't mean
they're not doing evil because it's
unavoidable all right
next the evil principles gives insight
into children's condition as
captive they're captive to
this they can't they can't escape from
this you can't either totally Romans 7
look at verse 22 and 23 for I Delight in
the law of God according to the inward
man but I see another law in my members
Waring against the law of my mind
and you see it and bringing
me into
captivity to the law of
sin which is in my
members freedom is not free
now when you become a Christian yeah you
you freed but you're not freed from this
entirely your body's not been redeemed
Romans chapter 8 says that's what's
coming the Redemption of the body that
hasn't happened yet your body is not
redeemed your soul has been redeemed
your body has not been redeemed that
means this thing that you're running
around in this spaceship this Earthly
spaceship that your body that you run
around in is fighting against everything
good that you stand
for you're captive to it what you going
to do I'm not captive to that you show
me getting outside of your body and stay
alive how you going to do it you're
captive to it you're imprisoned in this
shell that is not
redeemed you're captive by the way your
children are
captive they can't escape it and then
finally the evil principle gives insight
into children's condition is wretched
that's what it says verse 24 oh Wretched
Man that I am who will deliver me from
this body of
death
unfortunately you're raising wretched
children it's the way it is now they may
be really good because you have been
redeemed redeemed and you've been
Sanctified and you've learned to do good
and you can help them and you can help
them emphasize the
good that's right that's why we want you
to do the best you can but the truth is
is the evil principles help us
understand that your children's
condition even at best is still
struggling and dying they're dying
they're carnal they're sold they're and
I'm talking about before before they
become a Christian even they're sold
they're confused they're empty they're
evil they're captive they're
wretched you won't hardly ever hear that
taught what I've just taught you tonight
you will hardly ever hear taught
especially in the Church of Christ I'm
just telling you straight up I'm trying
to teach the truth tonight and I'm
telling you you will hardly ever hear
this we don't want to believe this we
want to believe we're born neutral we
believe that we are sinless because we
don't do evil before we reach the age of
accountability that's baloney we
are under the age of accountability
therefore we have a home in heaven but
the idea that we haven't done anything
wrong until we're baptized Blaze the
idea why we decide we need to be
baptized why would you ever think you
need to be baptized if You' never done
anything wrong what do you think you
just go straight there and that wouldn't
work so no you're not going to hear it
and maybe it's starting to hit you at
this point I hope I hope this this is a
subtle part of the lesson where we're
going now I hope all of this even though
it sounds discouraging depressing and
and you don't like it and I get it and I
would never whip my little Johnny
because he's never done anything
wrong but hopefully it's starting to hit
you why your child needs Jesus and why
they need a Godly mother and father to
give them the best best Godly advice and
encouragement that's possible they need
it you don't want them to give
themselves wholly over to evil they've
got that choice they can move and be
holy
evil but you can lead them away from
that and help them find that path I hope
it's starting to hit you
that why your little child needs to know
the gospel
why they need to hear about
Jesus maybe it's starting to hit you why
your child would teach them Jesus loves
you cuz the world said no it doesn't no
it
doesn't and you got maybe it's starting
to hit you that your child cannot be
fixed apart from God just can't be
done can I tell you a true story now
this is going to sound like a true story
for me in it anyway so there's two
monkeys so there's two monkeys in the in
the jungle and was running along and and
one of them ran ahead and he got caught
in
quicksand he's going down you know and
he's struggling he's a monkey all I know
how to do is struggle the other monkey
stood on the bank sees him in the quick
s he's several feet over there and he's
like said
um man you got to get out of that
and the monkey says well I'm trying he
says well pull yourself out he saidwell
how can I pull myself out he said well
uh let's think uh uh grab your hand and
pull on it really hard and so he did he
pulled on his hand really hard he says
I'm not moving he said that's right well
let's let's see here uh grab Yourself by
your ears and pull really hard maybe you
can pull yourself out pull and Pull and
Pull and says oh it's just hurting my
ears I'm not moving he says okay I wait
let's try this grab grab your tail reach
back grab your tail and just pull it
really really hard maybe you pull
yourself out so he pulls his tail really
really hard and he's going ah it hurts
really bad but I'm not moving he says
okay uh I I don't know here grab your
leg and pull it really really hard so he
grabbed his leg and pull it really
really hard and all this time I've been
doing exactly what he was doing pulling
your leg he did not get out
because you can't pull yourself out of
Quicks
sin you cannot pull yourself out of
evil the truth is neither you nor your
child can ever pull yourself out of sin
you got to have help that's all there is
to it we all need help we need help from
him obviously
right but more than that we also need
help from one another had the monkey
reached over and lended him a hand maybe
he could have gotten out of that but
just telling you you need to pull
yourself out of that me telling you you
need to snap out of sin you need to just
pull yourself pull yourself up by your
boot strips you ever tried to pull
yourself up by boot strips can't really
do that so it it's not
possible there's one who has the power
to pull us out of sin and one concept of
living living a Godly life that can kind
of diminish Evil's effect upon our lives
and our
hearts keep doing what you can for your
child because if you don't if you think
your child's evil
now just let them do whatever they
want you don't think the prisons are
full of people
there they're full of people that
weren't
helped they w
help they didn't have the Godly Parents
helping them or they were misled by
their friends or they were misled by the
wicked ones around
them keep doing what you can for your
child show them
Jesus so don't let evil control
you fight it with every ounce that
you've got and ask for help at every
turn from the Lord and from your
brethren go to Sunday school listen to
the Bible talk listen to what the other
Brethren say around you do that young
people you can't do
this you can't do it alone you need your
parents you need your grandparents you
need your cousins your aunts everybody
at church you need all the help you can
get but most of all you need Jesus and
if you think you're not a little evil
thing you may be the Wicked little thing
in this building right now so anybody
who thinks they don't need Jesus is the
most vile probably in the
room cuz I need him don't you amen
anybody in here need him beside me I
need him amen I need him every day every
hour and even with that I'm still not
living it I'm still not living it and
I've been doing this for 57 years and
I'm still not doing
but I'd like to and I want to and I see
Paul felt the same way the thing I want
to do I don't do but the thing I don't
want to
do that's what I end up
doing because there is
evil that came to us through Adam and
Eve don't think your child is got it
made because you just live in the same
building you got to work at this amen
you got got to work at this teach your
kid every day every day talk to them you
remember Deuteronomy 6 talk to them when
you sit in your house when you all walk
along the way when you're watching
television when you're at a sports game
talk to them tell them everything about
why you need Jesus why you need to live
this life I'm trying to save your life
and give you a life that's worth living
not hurt you I'm not trying to treat you
like you don't need it or that you I'm
I'm look talking down to you I ain't
talking down to you I'm probably talking
up to you because this is what we need
amen it is what we
need and if you don't get it now you'll
figure it out but it might be too late
