Church imagine waking up in 5 years time
or 2 years time or 3 years time imagine
someone in the community wakes up on a
Saturday
morning and they go to their family and
say hey I wonder what's happening down
at Creekside
today how cool would that be if we can
create a community where people want to
be here where people want to come and
see what's happening where people want
to be in a place where we can talk about
Jesus and not be ashamed and not be
threatened and not have to worry this is
what we're trying to achieve this is our
vision and if you haven't noticed by now
that's kind of my job this last two
weeks is to try and communicate this
vision and where we're heading where
this church is heading and something
that came up last week uh while I was
chatting to some members afterwards some
people said to me thank you so much for
explaining the buildings so I'm going to
do it again
that uh the top building on the right
top right that's where we are sitting
right now right that's the gymnasium
area that's the basketball court or
whatever we can use it for there's so
many different events that we have
planned to to to use this for uh the
building to the left of that is going to
be the worship
center okay it's going to host about 850
seats hopefully we can fill those seats
uh maybe we even have to to go to two
Services depending on how this
goes the building that looks like a
question mark I'm going to say it again
looks like a question mark uh is our
Learning Center we'll have a lot of
classrooms in there we're hoping that
that can double up as maybe clinics um a
child care facility maybe it's a
facility that can feed students into the
school next
door and then on the far right that
little building that's going to be the
benevolence and the offices then we have
all that playground in the middle and
there's lots of stuff that we are
planning to do there's so many things
and some of you have even come to me and
shared some more ideas and I'm writing
them down because we have such an
opportunity here and I want to emphasize
this is not about Recreation this is not
about us having
fun this is about
evangelism we are trying something here
that's very different I kind of feel
like we're swinging trying to hit that
home run we're trying we're taking a
risk to evangelize Jesus and what he's
done for us and so the goal is to create
this community and I'm really excited
about a church hopefully we can have
Monday through to Saturday we have
something happening here all the
time but church it's going to take you
it's going to take us as individuals to
come together and to be prepared to talk
about Christ and I'm going to talk about
that a bit today we're going to we're
going to learn a bit from Paul but
before we do that just pray with
me
our dearest God our heavenly father Lord
You Are The Great I Am you are
everything father we just want to thank
you for the blessings that you bestow on
us for the the the blessings that we
don't even see father we just thank you
so much for the breath in our lungs and
for another day that we could uh spend
with you but also spend with one another
father father we just offer up now this
this this building that we are this this
project that we are trying father father
we pray that it's pleasing in your sight
we pray that you'll bless us uh that we
can uplift the community around us but
father mainly help us to evangelize your
word your gospel your son and you to the
to this community father help us to to
be a Shining Light to those around us
help us to just just preach your word
father and we know that by preaching
your word we can change people's lives
so father help us to be courageous to be
strong to be prepared father we pray
that you'll open our hearts and Minds
now as we go through your scriptures and
learn about how we can better prepare
for you we love you in Jesus name
amen so I like to think
sometimes
that I'm going to get the first
restraining order in
heaven because my idea or or or or kind
of what I think I'm going to end up
doing is finding guys like Noah and be
like hey tell me your story I I want to
sit at Noah's feet and be like how did
you build such a big
structure and uh how did you navigate
those animals in 2 by two and what did
you do when the Lions showed up right or
the Bears or or how did that work I I I
want to know I want to know Noah's Story
I mean come on it's an amazing story
right so I think I'll probably get a
restraining order cuz I'll be at his
feed 24/7 just like what happened and
when I'm done with him I'm going to go
find
Moses how in the world did you keep
those people together for 40 years how
how did that work how did you do this
what did the burning bush look like I
want to talk to these people I want to I
want to know their story from their
their view
right but then I got thinking what's my
story what's our story What story do we
have to share one day that we're we're
sitting around in heaven and we're like
wow that was
amazing I like to think that I'm going
to stumble into heaven like dusting my
shoulders off like yeah that was awesome
let's do it again right I'd love to
share that story with someone and be
like yeah we tried something we did this
we affected our community we we helped
bring people to Christ I'd love to be
able to say that to
people and I hope you would too so what
is my story and what is next for
us my story is here with this
congregation until God removes me from
this congregation for whatever reason
this is where this is where we're going
this is what my heart is is is planned
on so what's our story
Church oh let's push that again there
you
go this is one of Paul's first
Journeys okay I'm to take three points
from three scriptures that I've I've
I've been studying we've been studying
the book of Acts with the youth on
Wednesday nights it's been uh it's been
a lot of fun I know Mr Reeves where is
Terry he loves it but um this is just
one of Paul's many Journeys and I kind
of wanted to look at Paul and and see
what we could learn from Paul and how we
could prepare how we could prepare to
teach about Christ because what an
amazing journey this guy went on he's
one of the big testimonies for Jesus in
my
opinion a man who was killing
Christians to all of a sudden turning
around and saying whoa whoa whoa no this
is actually the way to go something
amazing happened to Paul to the point
where he gets on a boat and he goes and
he goes to to places where he is
persecuted where he is ridiculed where
they they stoned him at one
point and yet he is so so convinced
about Christ and I got to know why and
how and how did he do it so Point number
one there you
go turn to Acts chapter 13 I'm going to
read from verse 14 to39 there's a bit of
reading today but I'm going read read
this
scripture verse
13 then Paul and his companions put out
to sea from pepos and came to per in
pamilia but John left them and returned
to Jerusalem moving on from perga they
arrived at pidan Antioch and on the
Sabbath day they went into the synagogue
and sat down after the reading from the
law and the prophets the leaders of the
synagogue sent them a message saying
Brothers if you have any message of
exhortation for the people speak it so
Paul stood up gestured with his hand and
said men of Israel and you Gentiles who
fear God listen the God of this People
Israel chose our ancestors and made the
people great during their stay as
foreigners in the country of Egypt and
with uplifted arm he led them out of it
for a period of about 40 years he put up
with them in the wilderness after he had
destroyed Seven Nations in the land of
Canaan he gave his people their land as
inheritance all this took about 450
years after this he gave them judges
until the time of Samuel the prophet
then they asked for a king and God gave
them Saul son of Kish a man from The
Tribe of Benjamin who ruled 40 years
after removing him God raised up David
their King he testified about him I have
found David the son of Jesse to be a man
after my heart who will accomplish
everything I want him to do from the
descendants of this man God brought to
Israel as Savior Jesus just as he
promised before Jesus arrived John had
proclaimed a baptism for repentance to
all people of Israel but while John was
completing his mission he said
repeatedly what do you think I am I am
not he but look one is coming after me I
am not worthy to untie the sandals on
his feet Brothers descendants of
Abraham's family and those Gentiles
among you who fear God the message of
this salvation has been sent to us for
the people who live in Jerusalem and
their rulers did not recognize him and
they fulfilled the sayings of the
prophets that are read every Sabbath by
condemning him though they found no
basis for a death sentence they asked
pilot to have him executed when they had
accomplished everything that was written
about him they took him down from the
cross and placed him in a tomb but God
raised him uh but God raised him from
the dead and for many days he appeared
to those who had accompanied who had
accompanied him From Galilee to
Jerusalem these are now his witnesses to
the people and we Proclaim to you the
good news about the promise to our
ancestors that this promise God has
fulfilled to us their children by
raising Jesus and also it is written in
the second Psalm you are my son to I
today I have fathered you but regarding
the fact that he was uh ra that he has
raised Jesus from the dead never again
to be a State of Decay God has spoken in
this way I will give you the holy and
trustworthy promises made to David
therefore he also says in another Psalm
you will not permit your Holy One to
experience Decay for David after he had
served God's purpose in his own
generation died was buried with his
ancestors and experienced Decay but the
one whom God raised up did not
experience Decay therefore let it be
known to you brother is that through
this one's forgiveness of sins is
proclaimed to you and by this everyone
who believes is Justified from EV uh
from everything from which the law of
Moses could not justify
you Paul is in the synagogue and at a
moment's
notice he's asked to give a
testimony and look at how prepared he is
church how prepared is Paul at a
moment's notice he's ready to give his
testimony and I I want to I really want
to emphasize how important it is to
actually know the Old Testament I know a
lot of Christians think oh we just have
to know the new testament old testament
yeah don't worry about it look at how
well Paul knew the Old Testament in fact
he quotes it a lot and you know what
Jesus also quotes the Old Testament and
so on and so on it behooves us to know
the Old
Testament to know the
timline do we know the timline from Adam
and Eve all the way up to Christ do we
have an idea are we able to to show how
Jesus came before us and how God's plan
points to
Christ are we able to do
that there's coming a
time where we need members to be here to
help with the EV members who are ready
to point to
Christ are we ready to point to Christ
I've heard a story of a young a young
little boy uh and some atheist was
mocking Jesus and and basically saying
that Jesus didn't really even exist and
a little boy started to list off the
genealogy from
Matthew all the way down to
Jesus what better what what better proof
is there than the genealogy of Jesus he
he lived this young little boy knew that
and was able to recite this church are
we able to point to Christ is my as my
point
here now I've heard stories that 20 30
years ago that if there was no Bible to
be found in a
courtroom that they would if there was a
Church of Christ member they would use
their Church of Christ member to swear
in because Church of Christ members were
known to know their
Bible we knew it so well
apparently how well do we know it now
Hebrews 8 and Jeremiah 31 both share
this declares the Lord I will put my
laws into their minds and write them on
their hearts and I will be their God and
they shall be my people 2 Corinthians 3
and
3 and you show that you are a letter
from Christ delivered by US Written not
with ink but with the spirit of the
Living God not on tablets of stone but
on tablets of human hearts how well do
we know our scriptures church are we
ready to point to
Christ Our best
friend I have I have a really good
friend in Australia he's the nicest guy
it's it's oh it's nauseating he's such a
nice
guy and I'm happy and I'm excited to
introduce him to other people I know
because he's a wonderful
person do we have that same energy for
Jesus my best friend Jesus who changed
my life am I able to point to him and to
tell people who he is and so you'll see
I put a little bit of homework up there
for
you
homework I put it in the form of a
question and I'd like for you to go home
today and when you have time by yourself
Wherever You
Are think about this first question I'll
give you three questions today the first
one who is
Jesus who is
he really examine your answer and and
what you can come up with and maybe
maybe we need to go learn a little bit
more maybe we need to prepare a bit
more let's go to the next point there
you
go there we
go second point I pulled out of what
Paul's life is showing us is that we
need to prepare to
persevere for Jesus if you go to 2
Corinthians 11:23 to
28 this is
brutal verse 23 Paul's saying are they
Servants of Christ I am talking like I
am out of my mind I even more so with
much greater labors with far more
imprisonments
with more severe beatings facing death
many times these are things Paul went
through
church because he was trying to preach
right five times I received from the
Jews 40 Lashes less
one three times I was beaten with a rod
once I received a stoning three times I
suffered
shipwreck right this is this is things
Paul went through
to preach the
gospel and night and day I spent a drift
in the open sea this terrifies me when I
was in the military we had to do an
exercise that if we we were simulating
that if we ejected out of an aircraft
and we landed in the ocean we have to do
our drills to survive in the ocean and
so they put us in a boat they drive us
about 2 three miles out to see off the
West Coast of
Australia big great white sharks and
then they Chuck Us in the
ocean and one by one so it's just me by
myself with this little tube around me
that's all I had right and it's black
underneath and and you're kind of
splashing so you look like a seal and
you know there's great whites around and
you got to go through the motions and
you're there for about 30 to 40 minutes
and you wait for a helicopter to come
and pick you up
right and one of my friends he he was in
his little life raft the helicopter came
they dropped the winchman and what
you're supposed to do is climb out your
your boat so you're in the water and
then they pick you up so he climbs into
the water the winchman comes down and
then they stop halfway and the winchman
goes back up and my buddy's still in the
water and the helicopter came lower and
started going around him like this and
around and around and then they came
back dropped the winchman picked him up
and he gets into the the helicopter he's
like hey what was that about like oh you
had a bunch of shars around you we were
just scaring them off I'm like that is
terrifying and I'm thinking about Paul
in this
situation for a whole night and a whole
day and he's not expecting a
helicopter how terrifying must that be
all because he's trying to point the
world to
Jesus let me keep reading what he what
else he went through verse 26 I have
been on Journeys many times in dangers
from rivers in dangers from robbers in
dangers from our own countrymen in
dangers from Gentiles in dangers in the
city in dangers in the wilderness in
dangers at Sea in dangers from false
Brothers in hard work and toil through
many sleepless nights in hunger and
thirst many times without food in cold
and without enough
clothing apart from other things there
is the daily pressure on me of my my
anxious concern for all the
churches is it fair to say Paul went
through quite a
bit what are we prepared to go
through to preach the word to share the
gospel with just our local Community
Church there's coming a time where we
are we are we have this
opportunity to teach are we prepared
are we prepared to point to Jesus are we
prepared to persevere through struggles
because I'm going to tell you what we're
doing a good work
here and and Satan's not standing on the
side like going well done this is this
is good work everybody well
done we're going to be under
attack we're going to get pushed back
we're not going to be liked for what
we're doing already there's people that
don't like us there's a spiritual war
going on church or we prepared to
persevere through I'd love to tell you
the stories about how Rex and I went
down to the county to try and get things
done it just felt like we were
being like Stonewall that we we couldn't
move forward with this it really we are
going to be under attack church are we
able to persevere in John 15:18 Jesus
says if the world hates you keep in mind
that it hated me first Matthew 5:11
blessed are you when people insult you
persecute you and falsely say all kinds
of evil against you because of Me 2
Timothy 3:12 now in fact all who want to
live God oh this one this one now in
fact all who want to live Godly lives in
Christ Jesus will be
persecuted not maybe not should be we
will be persecuted Church we're trying
to do something amazing
here we're going to be
persecuted so the question I put there
our little homework how is my
relationship with
Jesus and I think of it as a as a a
marriage my wife and I and as we build
our
relationship it makes it easier to
tolerate the silly things that I do
right and the silly things that maybe
she does like trying to load a 4x8 poian
board into the back seat of the car that
was fun to watch this
week I love my wife
but are we able to to persevere because
we have a good relationship with Jesus
so at home today take the time to think
what's my relationship with Jesus like
am I able to share that
relationship with someone who might be
down at
Creekside do I want to share that
relationship the final
point we need to prepare to be
passionate for Jesus turn to acts chap
22 vers verse 1 to
20 brothers and fathers listen to my
defense that I now make to you this is
Paul speaking right and and please note
that the context of this people want to
kill Paul right
now verse two when they heard that he
was addressing them in Aramaic they
became even quieter then Paul said I am
a Jew born in tssus in CIA but brought
up in this city educated with strictness
under gel according to the law of our
ancestors and was jealous for God just
as all of you are
today I persecuted this
way this way means
Christians I persecuted this way even to
the point of death tying up both men and
women and putting them in prison as both
the high priest and the whole Council of
Elders can testify about me from them I
also received letters to the brothers in
Damascus and I was on my way to make AR
rest there and bring the prisoners to
Jerusalem to be punished as I was on
Route and near Damascus about noon a
very bright light from Heaven suddenly
flashed around me then I fell to the
ground and heard a voice saying to me
Saul Saul why are you persecuting me and
I answered who are you Lord he said to
me I am Jesus the Nazarene whom you are
persecuting those who were with me saw
the but did not understand the voice of
the one who was speaking to me so I
asked what should I do Lord the Lord
said to me get up and go to Damascus
there you will be told everything that
you have been designated to do since I
could not see because of the Brilliance
of that light I came to Damascus led by
the hand of those who were with me a man
named ananas a devout man according to
the law well spoken of by the all the
Jews who lived there came to me and
Stood Beside Me and said to me brother
Saul regain your
sight and at that very moment I looked
up and saw him then he said the god of
our ancestors has already chosen you to
know his will to see the righteous one
and to hear a command from his mouth
because you will be his witness to all
people and what you have seen and heard
and now what are you waiting for get up
be baptized and have your sins washed
away calling on his name and when I
returned to
Jerusalem and was praying in the temple
I fell into a trance and saw the Lord
saying to me hurry and get out of
Jerusalem quickly because they will not
accept your testimony about me I replied
Lord they themselves know that I
imprisoned and beat those in the various
synagogues who believed in you and when
the blood of your witness Steven was
shed I myself was standing nearby
approving the guarding of the clo
guarding the cloaks of those who were
killing
him so why did I choose that scripture
to prepare to be passionate for
Jesus once again Paul's ready to testify
at any
moment but look at how vulnerable he is
look at how honest Paul is imag Imagine
imagine me standing up here today saying
yeah yeah I I used to kill a lot of you
but now I've changed my
mind I guess basically what he's
saying Paul is so honest and so
vulnerable that he's saying man I messed
up I am a sinner I'm horrific what I've
done but this is what God can do and
this is what God has done and he's
testifying his
story what kind of Hope does Paul have
in Jesus that he's able to be this
honest are we able to be this honest
are we able to stand before someone and
say I am a sinner I am a
mess how can he love me but he does and
he loves you
too and I want to share my best friend
with you because he wants to be your
best friend
too do we have that passion for Jesus
that we're able to share him to share
our relationship to point to
him
I love that joy joy this is what it
means Jesus first yourself last and
others in between I think that's the
answer to life
honestly to put Jesus first to show
others who he is to to tell others about
him to tell others how he changed my
life 1 Timothy 1:15 to17 it says this
saying is trustworthy and deserves full
acceptance Christ Jesus came into the
world to save sinners
and I am the worst of them Paul
says but here is why I was treated with
mercy so that in me as the worst Christ
Jesus could demonstrate his utmost
patience as an example for those who are
going to believe in him for eternal life
now to the Eternal King Immortal
invisible the only God be honor and
Glory forever and ever
amen are we passionate enough for Christ
that we can be this
honest so I put the I put the homework
question there what hope do I have in
him what hope do I have in him why am I
motivated to love him so much and why am
I motivated to share him what kind of
Hope do I have that he came that he died
and that he was raised and that he lives
and that I can I can live death is not
the end I have hope and hope doesn't
disappoint two weeks ago I found out one
of my friends tried to commit
suicide and uh he's he's the he's a nice
guy he's he's got a great job he earns a
lot of money he he he does well I mean
if if you look from the outside you'd be
like wow what a well put together young
man and unfortunately a month ago he had
to do a victim impact
statement and where he
faces uh the person who did wrong by him
and I'll put it this way he had to face
his childhood sports
coach and uh he said to us he says you
know
guys I've got all this stuff I've I I do
well but what's the point what's what's
the
point and I feel that I really feel that
statement what what's the
point and I I I just wish he would come
to know
Jesus as much as we've talked I just
wish he would come to understand that
the hope we have gives us purpose and
gives us
meaning church we need to share that
purpose and that hope and that meaning
with the community there are people out
there like my friend
that need
Jesus that want to be pointed to him
that need to be pointed to him that need
to have a relationship with him that
need to hear about our relationship with
him and that they need to see our
passion I want to share in that
passion and that's what we're asking you
to do oh let's go back
one in
conclusion these are three questions to
think about this afternoon and this week
who is Jesus to you how is your
relationship with him are you able to
share that what hope do you have in
him how can we share that we want to
point to Jesus we want to
persevere church we want to have some
passion and it's going to take all of us
to do this this vision is huge I love
this Vision I'm I'm proud to be a part
of this but we need everyone to step
up we we need everyone here to be
prepared to share the
gospel if you want to know Jesus today
if you don't know him if you want to
have a relationship with him if you want
to rejoice in the hope that we rejoice
in day in and day out if you want
purpose and meaning come we will help
you as we come and we stand and we sing
