Paul David trip in his book says the
goal of parenting is not control of
behavior let me say that again the goal
of parenting is not control of behavior
but rather of heart and life
change why do so
many Christian homes and I I don't think
I'm in fact I think I made reference to
this a week or so ago so I I believe
most of you are going to accept this as
true because I've seen it so so many
times why do so many Christian homes
send their children off to colleges and
universities and within a year or two or
maybe three but before they
finish many have totally abandoned their
faith the faith of their
parents I think the saddest possible
answer is they never had that
faith that they never were converted to
Christ that they were only controlled to
Christ that they were only dominated to
the point that they appeared to have the
Faith of Christ but in fact they were
just biting their
time till they had freedom from the home
to do as they
will it's absolutely true that children
must be
controlled to a degree to protect them
so I'm not advocating that we don't need
to control them that is true especially
the younger they are the more you have
to do it you can't allow them to stick
uh metal devices into an outlet
uh you know just there are things you
can't let them do like play in a highway
where a lot of cars are going 1 Timothy
3:4 King James new King James says uh
that an elder is to be one who rules his
own house well having his children in
submission with all reverence I think
that's a good translation I think the
New American Standard has it equally
good when it says keep keeping his
children under control with all dignity
so I do think it's the duty of parents
to keep particularly your little
children under control and as they grow
up to try to teach them
control um but what are the many ways
that gospel parents are to control their
children well I've got given a list look
at the list here I think that there 18
there and all the scriptures that go
with it uh if you want to study that
make a picture of it with your phone
it's guidance it's protection it's
instruction it's wisdom it's Authority
it's rules they need to understand all
these laws and structure preparation
they need to understand understanding
confrontation and how to deal with that
discipline warnings love forgiveness
security provision advice ah and that's
just the tip of the Asar that's not
everything they need to know by any
stretch of the imagination but that's
just a sampling of how important it is
for parents to teach their young people
through the gospel and through the word
of God
control and as gospel
parents if you're a gospel parent out
there your job is to be God's tool in
the hands of the Lord and this time it
is to teach and your primary job in this
particular topic is to teach your
children the control principle which is
they have to have control of themselves
like David in every Center I mean this
text is about David but every sinner
that's you and I and every one of us
your children must obtain the fruit of
the spirit because obtaining the Fruit
of the Spirit you can obtain
self-control that's a fruit of the
spirit within you and to have that
Spirit we must first recognize that we
have sin and to recognize our guilt of
sin and to be humble enough to be aware
of our failures enough that we know that
we need a savior that we are aware that
we're missing our life up and that we
need God's mercy and that we are humble
enough to go toward the master to accept
our failings and to cry out for God's
Mercy by seeking what he has commanded
us to do to develop uh our own personal
relationship with God and therefore God
to extend his Spirit within us so that
we might have
self-control before you come to know
Christ you have a form of control but it
is not spirit-led self-control
not if that's a gift or fruit of the
spirit you don't that's just honesty if
it is a fruit of the spirit you don't
have it until you have it so like
David's control problem which he
obviously had a control problem that led
to what he did with bash Sheba and Uriah
I want us to look at from his this text
that he wrote We believe what exactly
might be a message to parents and to
children or young people about this idea
of developing self-control this control
principle is critical and here's why
it's so critical you can be taught
it but no parent can make you have
self-control it's not possible no one
can make anybody have self-control you
can try but the only thing you can do is
Force somebody to do what you want them
to do but that is not self-control
that's your dominance over them and if
you want them to develop into the people
they need to be they have to develop
self-control you can't do it for them so
we're going to walk through that number
one your children's control principle
can only happen when they understand
when you teach them you must teach them
and they must understand the nature of
their sin and the dangers of their sin
not your sin their sin so often we're so
sensitive these days we didn't mean
hardly talk about Sin little less point
to somebody and say you're a sinner and
you're in trouble when do you hear that
told to your kids by parents but it's
true Psalm 51 starts this way have mercy
upon me listen this is David on me oh
God according to your loving kindness
according to the multitude of your
Tender Mercies blot out my
transgressions I'm my parents not
somebody else's Wash Me thoroughly from
my iniquity cleanse me from my sin for I
acknowledge my transgression and my sin
is always before
me we may want to blame anyone but me I
remember a fellow named Adam trying to
say well it was that woman you gave
me but my real problems don't start with
you you're not my
problem I'm my
problem and until you can accept that
you're not going to teach it to your
children so you got to know it's true
for you and then you need to teach it to
your
children and that's itical for the next
truth your children control principle
can only happen when they understand
their problem is not with their
parents let me say that
again children want to blame their
parents their problem is not with their
parents look at verse four against you
this is David this is sin against you
talking to God against you and you only
have I sinned and done this evil in your
sight that you may be found just when
you speak and blameless when you judge
judge who
me hating good
parents is not rejection of
parents hating good parents is rejection
of
God if your kids reject you parents they
are rejecting God this is serious this
is not minor I'm not talking about
having a disagreement with you I'm not
talking about didn't like what you told
him to do if you don't have that you
don't have a relationship I'm not
talking about that I'm talking about
when they decide they're rejecting you
and hating on you and they go in the
back room and curse you out or curse you
out to your face let me tell you
something they're not rejecting you they
are rejecting the Lord God and they are
in trouble with him against him is their
faults not against you this is not
you're not going to be their judge on
the day of judgment this is against the
Lord God Almighty and so my kid's only
16 years old I don't care
you're 12 years old listen to me don't
don't start letting them off the hook
this is sin against God and if you think
they only start doing wrong by the time
they're 12 you're smoking something
they've been doing wrong a lot earlier
than that and they knew that they were
doing wrong threeyear olds know when
they're doing
wrong that didn't mean they're lost but
it does mean as far as what they
understand their mind is
lost it's critical that they learn that
their problem is not with their parents
but they sure want to blame it on you
number
three your children's control principle
can only happen when they understand
which means you must teach them their
sin is a nature problem caused causing
behavioral problems this is not
something that they just made a mistake
Once Upon a Time this is a
tendency it's a tendency within us all
if it weren't a tendency you couldn't
have a scripture in the Bible that says
all have sinned and come short of the
glory of God that wouldn't be in there
you'd have to be able to find somebody
that hadn't done it but that isn't the
case we've all done wrong verse 5 Psalm
51 says this behold I was brought forth
in iniquity and in sin my mother
conceived me I know there's people
dancing all over the top of a of a pen
trying to explain that passage let me go
away from all that and simply explain it
my old country wism and that is we all
bear the guilt of our father Adam and
our parents subsequently from that
because every last one of them down to
you was a
sinner and I don't know how it comes I
don't know exactly how this works but I
can't fix it and you can't either and
you we need to quit denying it it is a
problem that we every single one of us
have and so when you say oh my children
they're sweet they're not like that you
are lying to them you're lying to
yourself your kids are just as monstrous
as the rest of us capable of terrible
things and this idea well I don't know
how my My Little B boy went out there
and killed 13 people last night I don't
know how that happened he was such a
good boy in my house it's CA he's got a
little monster inside called the devil
I'm telling you straight up we all have
a problem with sin there's not somebody
in here that has no problem with sin we
all even Christian even Christians we
still struggle with it absolutely and if
we let the devil control us we'll do
terrible things so here's what I do
know our troubles and our death flow
from our
sin so their sin is a nature problem
causing behavioral problems and you need
to talk to them about
that maybe they quit blaming you
number
next your children's control principle
can only happen when they understand
that their sin is a heart
problem and the solution is a new
heart this is not well what if I do X
will I be okay then no it's not like
that listen to what David says in verse
10 create in me a clean heart heart oh
God I have a heart problem why did David
commit adultery with basa he had a heart
problem who has a heart
problem creating me a clean heart oh God
and renew a steadfast Spirit within me I
had a steadfast Spirit but I don't
now renew a steadfast Spirit Within Me
so what that's really saying is I and
maybe you can't handle it but I'm
telling you I have a dirty heart and I
have an Unfaithful heart and I cannot
fix it but God can give me a new heart
he can give me a clean heart he can
renew a steadfast Spirit Within Me else
this passage has no meaning if that
can't happen so God can do that but I
have to be willing to allow that to
happen and I have to want it and you
need to teach it to your children that
they can change but it's going to be the
work of God in them not their work they
have to cooperate with it but they can't
make it happen just like you can't make
them become
that it's a cooperation thing number
next
your children in their control principle
can only happen when they understand
because you teach them that they must
run to the only hope for forgiveness and
Grace you're not
it you cannot save your
children you need to really get that
one cuz some of you feel like you failed
because you didn't save your children
you can't save your
children Jesus saves not you you can't
save them you can't make them become a
Christian nope nope NOP NOP NOP but you
can teach and you can kind of help them
understand if they hear it because it's
true for you that they must run just
like you had to run to the only hope for
your forgiveness and Grace the only
reason that you're fit to be called a
Christian today is because you ran to
the source and they must do the same and
if we don't do that well listen to verse
14 deliver me from the guilt of
Bloodshed now he had specifically on
that one what was his Bloodshed he
killed juriah the
hittite oh God have you killed anybody
well if you hadn't killed anybody that's
not your sin I ain't done anything
really bad well I'll get to that in a
minute the god of my
salvation and my tongue shall sing a
loud of your righteousness maybe you
hav't killed your R the head
tight probably some of us been connected
to an
abortion maybe we killed people in
war but maybe we just had hatred for
somebody you know you hate somebody
You're a
murderer and there's no murderer has a
uh eternal life abiding in them like the
prodical son you don't have to do the
specific thing this guy did be guilty
and need forgiveness we all need
forgiveness and it's got to come home
we've all got to understand I can only
be saved through him and I need
forgiveness you need forgiveness mommy
and daddy need forgiveness and they need
it just as much as little Johnny and
little
Susie so kind of a a summary look at
this this is your job gospel parents and
young people you need to listen because
hopefully they'll teach you these things
hopefully we will learn what it is to be
a gospel parent and we teach them to our
children until they understand the
nature of their sin and the dangers of
their sin that quite honestly a good way
to die is to sin you're going to die
from sin but a good way to die early is
sin
alot we've seen every one of us have
seen people that we know that died
early and a lot of them died early
because of their
sin and we need to teach them so they'll
understand that their problem is not
with their parents don't get me wrong
I'm not saying parents don't have
problems that's true but that's not the
real issue here you think well my
parents didn't do this my parents didn't
do that they weren't good to me my
parents my father was an alcoholic my
father was an alcoholic my parents
didn't go to church my parents didn't go
to church okay bottom line that's not my
problem that was never my problem my
problem was I was a sinner and I needed
to be saved that's the real thing it's
not my
parents and they need to understand that
quit blaming their parents and recognize
where the blame
lays and we need to teach them until
they understand that their sin is a
nature problem causing Behavior
problems if that's not the case then we
would stop sinning somewhere along down
the line but that isn't happening and we
need to teach them so that they
understand that their sin is a heart
problem and the solution is a new heart
and only God can give you that you can't
make that yourself you can't manufacture
it you can not just make a decision well
I decided I was never going to sin
against well you give that a try see how
that works I bet you
99.999 and the extra one have said that
in their mind and tried to quit all sin
and here in every last one of you failed
and if you don't think you failed you're
failing right now for thinking you
didn't fail and when they understand
because you're going to be the teacher
that they must run to the only hope for
forgiveness and Grace I read this this
CS Lewis you ever heard of him CS Lewis
a brilliant mind uh he described his
so-called conversion at Magdalene now
Magdalene was one of the constituent
colleges of the University of Oxford in
England so CS Lewis of brain as you
probably know this is the spring of
1929 and he wrote this in one of his
books called surprised by joy and I
thought it was quite interesting listen
to what he
writes you must picture me alone in that
room in
Magdalene night after night feeling
whenever mind lifted even for a second
from my work that's his studies for
college the
steady and unrelenting approach of him
of whom I so earnestly desired not to
meet that which I greatly feared had at
last come upon me in the Trinity term of
1929 May the 22nd I gave
in and admitted that God was God and
knelt and prayed now he will even tell
you this was not his true conversion he
didn't come to believe in Jesus even at
this moment
but he just finally gave in to the idea
that there really was a God and God was
God that's what he's talking about here
I gave in admitted that God was God and
knelt and prayed perhaps that night the
most dejected and reluctant con convert
in all of England I did not then see
what is now the most shining and obvious
thing the Divine
humility which will accept a convert
even on such
terms the prodical son at least walked
home on his own
feet who can duly adore that love which
will open the high gates to a prodigal
who's brought in kicking and struggling
and resentful and darting his eyes in
every direction for a chance to escape
he wanted nothing to to do with God and
he didn't want to even admit he
existed he wanted to stay away from the
idea he sums up with this statement the
hardness of God is Kinder than the
softness of
men and his
compassion is our
Liberation his goodness leads men into
repentance it may be hard for you to
accept young people if you're rejecting
God right now that doesn't mean he's not
chasing
you chasing you
down as a woman uh supposedly recently
converted to Christ and she is talking
about her
transformation and how her life had
changed so much since her conversion
experience this is what she said
I'm so glad I got
saved I have an uncle that I used to
hate so much that I vowed I'd never go
to his funeral but now I'd be happy to
go to his
funeral I'm afraid sometimes what we
think is change is not change I think
what we think sometimes is conversion is
not
conversion if there's a real
conversion that's kind of what we're
talking about
tonight as a gospel parent which is what
you're supposed to be your job is to be
a
tool in the hands of the Lord God
Almighty to teach to teach what to teach
your children about their control not
your control problem their control
problem that they have
one they're not going to get over it
until they know
it they have to know it and like David
and every other sinner that there ever
been you don't obtain
self-control by just
deciding it is a fruit of the spirit and
you got to get the spirit first you got
to realize what your sin is you got to
feel the guilt for it you got to be
humbl enough to reach out for it to
repent of your sins confess the name of
Christ to be baptized you got to be
willing to reach for it and look for
God's mercy in that once you seek to
develop that relationship with God and
you're willing to do whatever he calls
you to do then suddenly God's presence
comes within but there's nobody that can
make that
happen I can't do it for you nobody can
do it for you and that's why this what
we're fixing to do has called an
invitation this is not called a
coercion we don't make anybody come
forward we don't make it that's the
reason we often don't have anybody we
don't make it happen people come forward
because they want to people come forward
because they know they need it people
come forward because they realize their
life the way it's going right now is a
bit of a mess and they need the help so
whether we talking about Young Folks and
when I mean Young Folks I'm locking
teenagers maybe pretty older kids maybe
8 9 10 11 12 whatever depends on the
maturity of the kid Young Folks young
adults that's 20s and 30s and maybe
middle age 40s and 50s or those of us
who are a bit older 60s plus whatever
category you're
in you may have been baptized but were
you converted let me tell you something
maybe you just got wet when you're
baptized there literally has to be a
change of heart this isn't just about
joining another group this is about a
real change and only God can do it but
you have to allow God to do it and you
have to come to him humbly asking God to
do that and that's that's just all there
is to it yeah we can say here believe
repent confess and be baptized tell
everybody in the whole world knows it
but it doesn't mean anybody's being
converted the bottom line is did you
really come to Jesus did you really give
your life over was there a new heart
that took place and you can't blame
anybody else for it none of us can
neither your children children nor your
parents nor your great-grandparents
nobody can blame anybody else for it
it's on me it's on you we are not
offering a
coercion we're offering an invitation
it's for you if you'd like to come while
we stand while we say
