finding my purpose in God's thoughts
this is kind of the first in a a few
part series I won't say how many because
they don't know but you really need to
know the context of any statement in
scripture to know exactly what's being
said but sometimes we think we know
better than God what our life purpose is
it kind of reminds me of the man few
years ago you know we talk about these
planes crashing in U back in 2001 into
buildings and the like maybe y'all don't
remember but some of you are old enough
to remember back in the
70s back in 1976 in America it was u a
lot of planes were
hijacked guns were taken on the planes
and there were quite a number of planes
hijacked in 1976 for example a man drew
a gun uh and put it to a stewardess took
her
hostage and said take me to
Detroit and the stewardess said that's
where we're
going we're already going to
Detroit and he said oh and he sat
down some people think they know
better than who's actually flying the
plane uh sometimes we think think we can
reach our purpose without God's
guidance reminds me of another story
from back in the 70s back in
November of
1975 there were 75 men who were
incarcerated at and I'm going to do
terrible Justice this because I haven't
spoken Spanish a long time
Salo uh prison in northern Mexico and
they decided these 75 men that they
would dig a tunnel out of their prison
and they began in November of
1975 and they were successful on April
the 18th
1976 they tunned out of their prison and
all 75 came out of that tunnel
into the nearby
courtroom where the judges that had sent
them all to prison were working and and
they didn't have any problem returning
all 75 back to the
prison so sometimes we think we can
reach our purpose without proper
guidance and sometimes we seek God's
guidance in our
purpose but we
misunderstand what God God's guidance
gives
us there's a case of migratory birds in
the United States were tagged by the
department of the interior and when they
tagged them this was years ago they
tagged them with metal strips on their
leg and they
abbreviated uh who sent this out it was
abbreviated uh wash period bow period
serve period s RV W period b i o l uh
period s Ur RV and that was the
abbreviation of Washington biological
survey and they were surveying these
birds and where they were going and
where they found
them now later the code was changed
because of what happened a farmer in
Arkansas wrote the department of
interior with this letter and this
change the way they did that the letter
said dear sir I shot one of your
crows my wife followed the cooking
instructions attached she washed it she
boiled it and she served it but it was
the worst thing we ever
ate Washington biological survey washed
boiled and served so sometimes we seek
God's guidance or guidance and we
misunderstand what we're told I want us
to look at three simple truths from this
text and then we're going to go back
into what was said a moment ago I'm
going to try to show you a little deeper
what's being said here God thinks about
the plans he has for us now just think
about that just a second that God thinks
about his people and he thinks about
them enough that he has
plans that's a good thing to know verse
11 if you're in Jeremiah 23 and you like
that verse particularly this uh new King
James says for I know the thoughts that
I think toward you says the Lord
thoughts of peace and not of evil to
give you a future and a Hope New
American Standard says for I know the
plans that I have for you I think both
are correct let me try to get into some
of what he's talking about in
reality David the king wrote and Liv
between 1040 BC and 970
BC and in his writings he covers the
many plans that God thought about his
his people and for his people Psalm 40
verse 5 if you want to read a passage it
talks about this says many oh Lord my
God are your wonderful Works which you
have done and your thoughts toward us
cannot be recounted to you in order if I
would declare and speak of them the
thoughts he just has about us if I were
to declare them and speak of them they
are more then can be numbered their
plural thoughts and the number just goes
on and on now Jesus was obviously a part
of some of the thoughts that God had for
them okay so we're talking about after
David this is when they go into
Babylonian captivity but David was King
like I said between 1040 and 970 BC and
then Jeremiah lived after him and wrote
between 650 and 570 and Jeremiah was
before they go into Babylonian captivity
and Jeremiah 23: 5 and 6 says behold the
days are coming says the Lord so these
are some of the thoughts God had before
he says this uh about what he's going to
do afterwards it says behold the days
are coming says the Lord that I will
raise to David a branch of righteousness
that branch referring also probably to
Nazareth it says a king shall reign and
prosper and execute judgment and
righteousness in the earth verse six in
his days Judah will be saved and Israel
will dwell safely now this is his name
by which he will be called the Lord our
righteousness and of course we know that
Jesus is our righteous I mean that's
stated directly in 2 Corinthians 5 and
verse 20 so that is the son of David the
Messiah this is part of the plan and
these thoughts were made even before the
statement of Jeremiah
29 I remember Johnson Oatman Jr well I
don't remember him as a person he lived
and wrote this in 1897 so that's a
little bit before my time but he wrote
something that speaks to this concept
about how many thoughts he has toward
his people it says this when upon life's
Billows you ever heard this one when
upon last Billows you are Tempest tossed
when you are discouraged
thinking All Is
Lost counture
many name them one by one and it
will surprise you what the Lord has done
that's just what he's
done but he's thought about those things
so never think that you have no plan
some people want to argue there is no
plan never think that you have no plan
or that God who predestined Christ to
save us has no plan for you obviously
that was his plan for you and your works
for whatever his plan is at this point
is his purpose and he has thoughts
towards you so finding my purpose it's
essential in finding my purpose that I
recognize that I will only really find
my purpose in the thoughts that God has
for me I find that God thinks about
plans he has for you and me so whether
you realize it or accept it or thought
through this he doesn't treat some
special and others not so special
he has always had plans for us you and I
and the children of God so that's the
first lesson that we need to see the
second one is that God thinks about the
peace that he has for us he wants to
give his people peace Shalom if you will
he says in back in Jeremiah 2911 for I
know the thoughts that I think toward
you says the Lord thoughts of peace and
not of evil or bad to give you a future
and home so he thinks about your peace
your Shalom your perfect State Isaiah
predicted the destruction for Israel
that we are looking at that would follow
with
Jeremiah he says and remember Isaiah
wrote between 740 and 701 and he says in
Isaiah 40: 9-1 I'll read beginning verse
10 10 behold the Lord God shall come
with a strong hand and his arm shall
rule for him behold his reward is with
him and his work before him he will feed
his flock Like a Shepherd he will gather
the Lambs with his arms and carry them
in his bosom and gently lead those who
are with young now this is Isaiah 74701
one and he's talking about a tender
return for Israel that was the plan even
though Isaiah was well before the
departure into Babylonian captivity
there would be a gentle return he had a
plan for that so yes he intended to
destroy Israel but he had a plan for
what would come after Jeremiah predicted
after the destruction a return and
blessings and peace and again he lived
between 650 and 570 BC and this is what
it says in Jeremiah 30 beginning in
verse 18 behold I will bring back this
is in this text we just read a moment
ago those same terms you remember that I
will bring back the Captivity of Jacob's
tents that's also in Jeremiah 29 he just
said that we just heard it read and how
Mercy on his Dwelling Places so I'm
fixing to show you some mercy then out
of them shall proceed Thanksgiving
that'll be the people and The Voice to
those who make marry they'll be singing
and happy I will multiply them so they
will again even grow more and I will
also glorify them I'll make them look
like a great country again verse 20 and
their congregation shall be established
before me and I will punish all who
oppress
them so in Jeremiah's prediction Not
only would they be taken away but they
would be brought back Edward Henry
Becker death and I don't think I
pronounced that right 1875 is it up
there I didn't have that he said this in
a poem that you might have heard too
peace perfect peace in this Dark World
of sin the blood of Jesus Whispers peace
within it is enough Earth struggles soon
shall cease and Jesus called calls us to
Heaven's perfect
peace God wants peace for us he wants to
be at peace with us he wants Shalom he
wants a relationship that lasts
eternally that's what he wants for you
that's his plan for you that's his
purpose for you that there will be a
peace that you will experience unlike
any peace you've ever never fully known
here you get a taste of it you've got it
right now but it's only a taste of the
Peace So never think God has no peace
plan for you maybe your life's full of
turmoil right now but know that you and
he seeks peace or Shalom for you both
with and for you uh as you fulfill his
purposes so finding
my purpose or your purpose I need to
find it in God's thoughts and I find
that God
thinks about my
peace that's a big thought isn't it God
thinks about your
peace being at peace with
you and you experiencing true peace and
you don't really experience that in this
world
but he wants you to some of you may be
experiencing in sleepiness but no it's
not the same thing number last God
thinks about the purpose he thinks about
the purpose he has for us in verse 11 it
goes on to say to give you a future and
a hope so now he's talking about in the
text literally as you know now you can
see it them coming back he had a future
and a hope for Israel
he had a desire for Israel to not just
make it in Babylonian captivity but to
come back from Babylonian captivity and
have a nation again and Jesus to come
through them that was his purpose for
them we have hope for our Unfaithful
children that's what I just
said we have or we should have hope when
we have Unfaithful
children for our Unfaithful children in
their future
faithfulness why because Jeremiah 31:17
also says there is hope in your future
says the Lord that your children shall
come back to their border so he's
talking about
Israel who is judged
Unfaithful and were sent into Babylonian
captivity because they were so un
faithful and he's hoping oh no he has a
plan so that you can hope right now that
your future will see one day even if
you're not here to see it your children
back in this land and faithful that's
what he's saying in that text and that's
in both Jeremiah and Hosea have this
same thing they're contemporaries as you
know 650 570 we have hope that she now
we're talking about Israel as a country
she are Unfaithful Israel or for us our
Unfaithful church at times that its
future will be filled with hope and
comfort and a
song and in this text it's she is Gomer
and Gomer is Israel and it can be
attributed to the church or anytime
we're Unfaithful Hosea 2 and verse1 15
parallel to Jeremiah says this therefore
behold I will Allure
her will bring her into the Wilderness
and I'll speak Comfort to her I will say
the things I need to say to Israel to
get their attention and I'll set in
comforting words to the church that's
wandered away and I will give her her
Vineyards from there and the valley of a
aor as a door of hope she shall sing
there as in the days of her youth as in
the day when she came up from the land
of Egypt he had a hope for his people
for the country Israel for his kingdom
for our kingdom for the church today so
what I'm trying to suggest to you is he
has purposes and purposes within
purposes and we don't get them and if
you think you see what God's doing I
think you're blind except to see it as
as it's happening I don't think you or I
have any more idea about what God's
going to do in the next 5 years as you
do in the next five
minutes and anybody who thinks they do I
think's been smoking something I just
don't believe that at all I don't
believe we've got any in inkling and if
you're listening to somebody online
that's telling you what's going to
happen I think you need to quit
listening to them William cper I think's
got the best thoughts on this
1774 he wrote he was called mad caler c
o w p r mad caler because he was so
chronically depressed that there is a
Darkness to most of the things he would
write and he was uh one of the most fine
English himels himn writers at the time
and he wrote something you probably
remember God Moves In A mysterious way
his wonders to perform he plants his
footsteps in the sea and rides upon the
storm deep in unfathomable minds of not
minds but minds of never failing skill
he Treasures up his bright designs and
works his Sovereign will so that
indicates he's accomplishing what he
wishes here you fearful Saints fresh
courage take the clouds ye so much dread
are big with mercy and shall break in
blessings on your head judge not the
Lord by feeble sense you have no idea
what's going on Judge not the Lord by
feeble sense but trust him for his grace
behind a frowning Providence he hides a
smiling face his purposes will ripen
fast unfolding every hour the bud may
have a bitter taste but sweet will be
the flower
blind unbelief is sure to Heir and scan
his work in vain God is his own
interpreter and he'll make it
plain I don't think anything better has
ever been written on the subject of what
God plans to do in the next little bit
um so never think God is no purpose
planned for you or that you have no
purpose no uh you are his purpose see
are you listening now you the Church of
Our Lord the children of God on Earth
are his purpose and you are part of his
purpose and he has a purpose for you and
that should be literally clear Ephesians
2:10 talks about how God uh made us
right he created us and therefore we are
his
workmanship created for good works so
not only are we his work but we are to
do his work so finding my purpose in
God's thoughts is where exactly I should
find my purpose I find that God thinks
about the purposes he has for us now you
may not be able to ever know his
thoughts in this world but this is the
case look at what we've just looked at
and this makes it so clear God thinks he
did it back then why would he change he
thinks about the plans he has for people
he thinks about the peace he has to give
to his people and he thinks about the
purpose he has for his people but to be
thorough we really need to see that in
the context we need to go back so if you
would if you still got your Bibles open
there roll back just a little bit we're
going to start at verse 11 and we're
going to read through 14 one more time
because this speaks of a wider concept
that sometimes we is here it says for I
know the thoughts that I think toward
you says the Lord thoughts of peace and
not of evil to give you a future and a
hope then you will call upon me and go I
love that and go why do you need to go
and go because you go to wherever you're
going to be with your people and pray to
me and I will listen to you and you will
seek me and find me and when you search
for me with all your heart I will be
found by you says the Lord and I will
bring you back from your your captivity
I will gather you from the Nations and
from all the places where I've driven
you says the Lord and I will bring you
to the place from which I cause you to
be carried away captive so in context I
want to find something here I want you
to walk through this with me I want you
to think through first I find that God
thinks about my part of his purpose for
us because he did it in this text and
what would be my part at least for sure
in this text what was their part would
likely be my part god thinks thoughts
and my part in my purpose is praying he
says you will call upon me and go and
pray to me and I will listen this is
verse 12 so your part right now what's
your purpose part right now of God's
plan for you you don't need to stop
praying you need to pray all the time
every chance you get second thing it
mentions is in God's thoughts my part is
my my purpose in seeking him I'm not
just to pray to him I'm to seek Him seek
to be with him you will seek me and find
me when you search for me with all your
heart so that's my part I need to seek
the Lord and if I stay in context of
that same statement I find that God
thinks about his part so he thinks about
my part is prayer and seeking him what
does he think about his part in this
purpose that he's trying to work out in
me number one God's thoughts about his
part is his purpose is Manifest himself
to you he needs to display himself to
you you say oh I don't believe God does
that I'm not talking about seeing a
vision sitting on your bed I'm talking
about seeing God working in your life
and knowing it's happen he says I will
be found by you that's when you pick up
your Bible and you see God in that
that's when you see it in the eyes of
your brethren when you're together with
them and it's also when God works in
your life and answers those prayers he
manifests himself to you John 14: 21-23
there's a manifestation that will happen
then in God's thoughts his part is not
just manifesting but his part is in
restoring so if you've wandered away his
part in producing the purpose that he
wants for your life is when you fail and
you will
fail because you
have and when you fail he'll restore you
that's his part I can't do that I can't
restore you you can't restore you God
restores us and then in God's thoughts
his part is in my purpose is in
assembling us ain't that an interesting
thing I will gather you he didn't say
I'll pull you back here and you'll never
see each other I will gather you there
is a purpose in us being together the
people of God need to be together they
need to be in one location they needed a
country we needed church that's a
gathering and God does never want you to
live out there in your faith by yourself
on some Hillside that's never been his
plan he wants to pull his people
together and then finally in God's
thoughts his part in my purpose is
placing I will bring you to the place
there's always a place now you can say
well is this the place I don't think
that's really in his mind I think his
place is the ultimate place but still he
has a place for you and by the way
heaven is it's not a mirage and it's not
just a spiritual concept it's not an
idea it's a real place and you're going
to a real place and without God and
without his purpose for your life life
becomes empty if you look at all of this
this is his part I can't do any of those
things he does that right but I can pray
and I can seek Him and God will help me
find my place James Dobson youall heard
of him Dr James all right James Dobson
uh in a book called coming home Timeless
wisdom for families back in
1998 I can give you the page number but
you don't care anyway uh he said that
one day his daughter uh Diana came in
one day uh his teenage daughter and says
uh I found a a game says Hey Dad there's
a great new game out listen to this a
great new game out this is not that long
ago there's a great new game out I think
you'll like like it it's called Monopoly
yeah brand knew and he said I just
smiled and we gathered the family it was
a family night so they all gathered up
and old dad played the game a time or
two before and before it was over with
he owned all the best properties he
owned
Boardwalk well if you a played it this
won't mean anything but Boardwalk
Parkplace Baltic
Mediterranean and the kids were all
squirming by the end not really enjoying
it at all and he says I was loving every
moment it I was eating it alive and
finally he says about midnight I
foreclosed on the last property and when
I did I jumped up and danced around the
room he says and none of my family
thought that was good at all they all
just huh how's Dad acting like that
since my family wasn't impressed they
went to bed mad at me and said well you
can put the game up
yourself here's what he said then as I
began putting all of my money back in
the Box a very empty feeling came over
me everything that I had
accumulated was
gone the excitement over riches was just
an
illusion and then it occurred to me
hey this isn't just the game of Monopoly
that has caught my
attention this is The Game of Life you
sweat and strain to get ahead but then
one
day after a
little chest
pain or a wrong change of Lanes on the
freeway the game
ends and guess what it all goes back in
the
Box you leave the world just as naked as
the day you came into
it
that's what life is like when you don't
have meaning and
purpose it's just a
game and you don't
win but if you see your purpose as
whatever God has planned for me as a
child of God and I'm in his thoughts and
he has a
plan he has a peace for
me and he really does have a purpose for
me and I realize that purpose is found
in Christ and I realize that if I'll
pray and I'll seek him he'll do his
part then suddenly when I go back in the
box it's okay it's all okay if you're
not right with the Lord we'd encourage
you to get right tonight don't leave
here if you're not right with him make
sure that
you're going in the box with the right
attitude and the right
relationship if you need to come come
while we standing while we sing
