you know only in Americans can some
things happen America's kind of an
interesting place in America and I
suppose only in America you can uh uh
get a pizza at your house faster than
you can get an ambulance um only in
America uh can you uh find handicapped
parking in front of a skating rink uh
only in America can you go into a
drugstore right now you have all been in
all the drugstores right right so what
them fix to say about the drugstore is
true about all of them it's not some of
them you go into the drugstore and you
have to walk all the way to the back if
you're sick but uh if you're a smoker
you can get your cigarettes at the front
um only in America do people order uh
double cheeseburgers large fries and a d
coke uh only in America do we leave uh
cars worth uh 20 and 30 and 50 60,000
$100,000 in driveways and put her junk
in the gar to protect it uh only in
America do we have on our phon systems
to screen calls and record messages uh
that we don't want to miss though we
have no desire to talk to the person
that we're just recording their message
from only in America only in America do
you buy uh hot dogs in packages of 10
and buns in packages of eight I think
that's a conspiracy personally but to
get you to buy 16 bun that you don't
need so many of the ons to make it work
um you know it's not a sin to love your
country it's not and Luke 7:5 and but
but when I say that let me let me say
something right here there's almost
nothing about this subject I'm talking
about something tonight the title sounds
like I'm talking about something there's
almost nothing about what I'm talking
about
tonight on that level but I'm going to
talk about it from a different way Luke
7:5 one of the a few times for he loves
our nation and has built us a synagogue
so it's not wrong to love a nation love
a country and to do good things uh it's
not wrong U that was a uh Centurion such
love though took place under a Roman
dictator that can happen so even under a
Roman dictator you can love your
country under
dictatorship
yeah you mean
even if the country is not like this in
a democracy can you love your country
absolutely you again people do it all
over the world nearly 200 countries
across the world today and I've not been
in one that they didn't pretty much love
their country oh surely they don't yeah
pretty much love their country wherever
you are and uh by the way that's not
wrong for them to love their country but
loving your country can become a
sin it can let me take you into that
just a little bit uh because sometimes
we forget 1 John 2: 15-17 do not love
the world or the things in the world if
anyone loves the world the love of the
father is not in him for all that's in
the world the lust of the flesh the lust
of the eyes and the pride of life is not
of the father but is of the world and
the world that includes America and the
world is passing away but he who does
the will of God abides for
forever something to remember GK
chesterson has an interesting thing he
says I may move too fast there yeah too
fast just hold what you got there but GK
chesterson said in 1901 in a book he
wrote called the defendant my country
listen to this statement I think it's
kind of interesting and something to
provoke your thought anyway about your
country my country Rider wrong is a
thing that no Patriot would think of
saying it is like saying my mother drunk
or sober interesting quote in
it GK chesterson wrote again in a a book
in
1908 called Orthodoxy and he said this
no one doubts that an ordinary man can
get on with his with this world you can
get on with it get along with it can he
hate it enough to change it and yet love
it enough to think it worth changing
there's an interesting quote Aaron sorin
now Aaron sorin uh has won a few Oscars
he's a screenwriter you probably
remember some of his work he he was a
part of the movie uh The Social Network
and he was a part of a show that was on
TV for several years called the westwing
uh he wrote this to his family after and
I don't know which election it was but
it was a disappointing election from his
perspective I don't even know what he
what positions he holds or well which
side of the aisle he's on or anything
but here's what he wrote uh because his
whole family was upset with how the
election turned
out America didn't stop being America
last night and we didn't stop being
Americans and here's the thing about
Americans our darkest days have always
always been followed by our Finest
Hours that sounds good it's encouraging
a little bit so that's for those of you
who are a little worried about your
country but um I think maybe you need to
think of it differently let's look at
these thoughts all nations may honor
evil
all every nation that I've ever known
May honor evil and dishonor good Matthew
13: 54-57 57 says a prophet is not
without honor except in his own country
so what's interesting is is that even in
Jesus day even in a a land where
everybody believed in the same thing uh
prophets were were
Dishonored Isaiah 5:20 says woe to those
who call good evil and evil
good and it happens in every
nation all nations may desire a better
country well they should maybe that's
the reason that our countries are
defective Hebrews 11:16 says they desire
a b better country that is a Heavenly
one who doesn't want that all nations
may exist by the grace of God that was
read in your hearing a moment ago
actually verse 26 says he he that is God
has made from one blood every nation
that means God made all the
nations every nation of men to dwell on
all the face of the Earth by the way he
made us to dwell on all the face of the
Earth something that hasn't actually
happened yet and has determined their
pre-appointment times and the boundaries
of their dwellings so that they should
seek the Lord God intends for the entire
Earth to be covered so every time you
hear people say oh well we got to do
something about thep explosion the world
needs to be filled hasn't happened yet
all nations may have devout people in
them by way so even a bad nation has
devout people absolutely that's what's
said in Acts chapter 2 verse 5 devout
men from every nation under heaven so
when you begin to think well my country
is the only one that matters just
remember there are Christians in every
other country and you've just disdained
what matters to them and so be careful
what you say about their
country having lived in another country
every country loves
their country and they have good people
in it even in bad countries and all
nations may be blessed by God in Genesis
18:18 says all the nations of the Earth
shall be
blessed in him that is in Christ so
literally God intends to bless all the
nations so maybe we shouldn't disdain
all the nations other than ours all
believers all believers citizenship all
believers citizenship
is not in
America but God's kingdom of heaven now
that is a mean that you're not a citizen
of this country but that's not your real
citizenship because Philippians chapter
3: 20 says for our citizenship not one
of our citizenship so listen to me I'm
just trying to be biblical here not
trying to make anybody
angry our
citizenship is in
heaven that's the only one that really
matters
sorry if that offends anybody ma uh
psalm 22:28 for the kingdom is the
Lord's and he rules over the
Nations it's his all of it in Daniel
7:14 says then to him was given dominion
and glory and a kingdom this is talking
about the prophetic utterance about
Jesus Christ and the ultimate work that
would happen through him then to him was
given dominion and glory and a kingdom
that all peoples Nations and languages
should serve him his Dominion is an
everlasting Dominion kind of talked to
all about this morning which shall not
pass away and his kingdom the one which
shall not be destroyed and I'm giving
you tons of other scriptures teaches
that same thing now we are members of
his
kingdom but we have
not listen to me we have not possessed
the kingdom yet and and too many people
make the mistake that's the reason they
say all you shouldn't pray thy kingdom
come you need to understand the
Scripture A little better than that
let's walk through some things you need
to understand here we go Daniel chapter
7 you look them up there's so many here
I'm going to just read through these
because takes I didn't have a I'm going
be clicking all night uh Daniel 7:22 you
make a note and go look it up later it
says until the ancient days came and a
judgment was made in favor of the Saints
the most high and the time came
for the Saints to possess the
kingdom that's talking about toward the
end so that means you and I have not
possessed it yet if you don't believe
that follow with me the rest of these
Matthew 25:34 says then the king will
say to those on his right hand come you
blessed of my father
inherit the Kingdom prepared for you
from the foundation of the world uh you
haven't got that yet you haven't
inherited yet and I got a ton of
scriptures in your outline that if you
want to look at Ephesians 5:5 puts it a
different way talking about that
inheritance for this you know that no
fornicator unclean person nor Covetous
man who is an idolator has an
inheritance in the Kingdom of Christ and
God so there is an inheritance in the
kingdom when you get there that if
you're not right with God you don't get
James 2:5 listen my beloved bre has God
not chosen the poor of this world to be
rich in faith and HS of the Kingdom
which is promised to those who love him
that and the kingdom is in existence as
we know it and the way we talk about it
in the sense that Christ came but you
have not you are an heir of the Kingdom
having not received the inheritance yet
second Timothy 4 verse1 says I charge
you therefore bre uh before God and the
Lord Jesus Christ who will judge the
living and the dead listen to this
little word at at his appearing and
Kingdom so when he appears that's the
appearance of the Kingdom in 2 Timothy
4:18 says and the Lord will deliver me
from every evil work and preserve me for
his Heavenly Kingdom wait a minute he's
talking about in this life and yet I
don't have that because I'm being
preserved for the Heavenly Kingdom to
him be glory forever and ever amen
Hebrews 12 verse 28 puts it this way
therefore since we are receiving not
have received we are receiving a kingdom
which cannot be shaken let us have Grace
by which we may serve God acceptably
with reverence and godly fear you know I
don't talk about this very much but it's
important for you to recognize because
so many things I hear said about this
that obviously it's not biblical listen
to this statement because this this
gives you a a little insight in the
difference between the now and the then
okay and May Matthew 26: 6-7 it says
this and you will hear of wars and
rumors of wars see that you are not
troubled for all these things must come
to pass but the end is not yet so this
is important part of this explanation
and so hearing of wars and rumors of
wars is no indication of the end so
that's not what it's saying and so many
people have thought that that's what
that is that that's a sign that we're
getting close to the end that's not true
that's not the sign you've missed the
whole point let me read it again and
you'll understand it when I get through
reading it now understand that the wars
of the rumors of wars are not a sign of
the end coming it's the exact opposite
listen to it and you will hear wars and
rumors of wars see that you are not
troubled for all these things must come
to pass but the end is not yet right for
nation will rise against nation and
Kingdom against Kingdom and there will
be famines p and earthquakes in various
places okay I'll get to now the proof of
that in just a second Isaiah 2 and
verse4 here's the prophetic utterance in
Isaiah chapter 2 about the kingdom he
shall judge between the Nations and
rebuke many peoples they shall beat
their swords into plow shares and their
Spears into pruning hooks Nation shall
not lift up sword against Nation notice
the parallel of the con contrast Nation
will rise against Nation Kingdom against
Kingdom Nation shall not left up sword
against Nation neither shall they learn
War anymore Revelation 11:15 talking
about that period it says this then the
seventh Angels sounded and there was
loud voices in heaven saying the kingdom
of this world have become the kingdom of
our Lord and of his Christ and he shall
reign forever and ever so that's what
happens the shift happens and there's no
more Wars so Christ teaching about our
country is the
kingdom that's our country
that's my
country on the sermon of the mount I
want to take the sermon of the mount and
I'm going to teach just a about seven
little ideas and then I'll be through
okay stay with me don't be too upset
this is straightforward stuff love your
country which is God's kingdom by
shrinking for it that's the word I'm
using by shrinking sh r i n k i n g for
it see Matthew 5 and: three is the first
text in The Sermon on the Mount and it
says this blessed are the poor in spirit
for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven they
will possess
it and the word poor there it's an
interesting Greek word but it means
literally to
shrink to cower or to
cringe to become a beggar a
beggar that's literally what it
means that's what a does in fact what a
beggar does is
this and that's what he's calling you to
do Luke
16:20 a beggar named Lazarus that's the
same word so that's what Lazarus did
beggar named Lazarus full of sores who
was laid at his gate and he got food in
Acts chapter 3 you see it again acts 3:
1-5 I'll pick up verse two and a certain
man lame from his mother's womb was
carried whom they laid daily at the Gate
of the temple which is called Beautiful
which by the way if you know anything
about it was one of the ugliest gates to
ask arms for those who entered the
temple verse three who seeing Peter and
John about to go into the temple asked
for arms verse four and fixing his eyes
on him when John and Peter
said look at us now you get what he just
said the very thing he wasn't doing he's
asking
OBS so they replied to him look at
us Beggars didn't look at the people
giving them
something they never looked at them in
the eye they were
ashamed it's classical Greek use of the
word to shrink they would hide their
face close their eyes turn away because
they're
embarrassed as you would be to have to
beg to
survive and so they would turn their
face away close their eyes often put
their hand over their face so you
wouldn't even recognize them and put
their other hand up right
crouching to beg in a corner of the
street and get out in the middle
hide over here on the
side in Luke 18:13 a tax collector would
not so much as raise his eyes to Heaven
do you remember
that two men go up to the temple one
stood and prayed thus with himself
father I thank you I'm not like the tax
collector wouldn't even raise his
eyes he smokee
himself God be merciful to me The Sinner
so what I'm suggesting to you is to love
your country God's
kingdom change your
attitude that your attitude is that how
you approach
God number
two love your country God's kingdom by
suffering for
it verse 10 it says blessed are those
who are persecuted for righteousness
sake for theirs is the kingdom of heaven
so again it's the theirs is the kingdom
theirs is the kingdom persecuted the
word persecuted doesn't mean what a lot
of us tend to think it means doesn't
mean to be beaten doesn't have that
meaning at all that's not what the word
means it can mean that that's not what
it means it means literally to be
pursued means to be pursued somebody's
we would say somebody's out to get
you somebody's looking for a way to get
you to be pursued or and therefore it
means to be opposed to some degree 1
Peter 3:14 talks about you can suffer
and receive threats it be troubled so
there's a lot of different ways that you
can suffer for the
kingdom sometimes you just go through
trouble trying to do something good at
church and somebody can be
appealed you just try and do good try
and teach teach Bible class over here
and one of the Mama come in and get all
over
you and you're just trying to do good
that's actually persecution you may not
realize it but that's what the meaning
of the word is when somebody's nasty to
you when somebody pursues you when
somebody says something ugly when
somebody kind of becomes kind of like
your
enemy that's persecution that's what the
word means it doesn't mean you have to
die on a cross it doesn't mean that
somebody has to beat you with a a a whip
no that's not the meaning of the word so
blessed are those who are persecuted for
righteousness sake for theirs is the
Kingdom of Heaven in second Timothy 3 2
Timothy 3:12 it says all who desire to
live Godly in Christ Jesus will suffer
persecution there will if you are
following the Lord somebody while you're
trying to do it will find fault with
you Galatians 4: 29 he who was born
according to the flesh persecuted him
born according to the spirit that's
going all the way back to the Book of
Genesis remember you remember ishmail
and Isaac
right all the way back there we can go
to Genesis chter 4 we can see it in Cain
and Abel right the one born according to
the flesh persecuted him born according
to the spirit he doesn't have to kill
somebody but that will happen from time
to time uh so
vanala I know it's hard to say most
people call him Jerome live between 1452
and
1498 he's a preacher during the the
Renaissance in Florence and he's known
for literally advocating the destruction
of secular art and culture he denounced
all clerical corruption all despotic
rule all exploitation of the poor and
there was a lot of all of that at that
time a biographer writing about him said
this his preaching was a voice of
thunder and it's his denunciation of sin
was so terrible that the people who
listen to him went about the streets
half dazed bewildered and speechless his
congregations were so often in tears
that the whole building resounded with
their sobs and with their
weeping he was too
uncompromising in trying to present the
truth and so the church convicted him of
heresy he was hanged and after he was
dead he was burned
love your country God's kingdom by being
willing see so shrinking for it in the
corners but still asking for it
suffering for it that means through any
kind of a threat any kind of a fuss any
kind of ugliness it's worth it number
three love your country God's kingdom by
schooling for it it's your
responsibility to teach the next group
coming along listen to Matthew 5: 19-20
it says whoever therefore breaks one of
the least of these Commandments and
teaches men so shall be called least in
the Kingdom of Heaven but whoever does
and teaches them he shall be called
great in the Kingdom of Heaven for I say
to you unless your righteousness exceeds
the righteousness of the scribes and the
Pharisees you will by no means enter the
kingdom of heaven now what we know about
how they were doing it is there there
are those who taught the
law but didn't teach the prophets
because they thought just keep the law
it didn't matter where your heart was
but if you break it with your heart and
keep it with your body you haven't kept
the law so the word break in this text
means to loose or release or dissolve or
to unul it and anytime that God's
Commandments are in any way put down as
if they don't matter that's what we're
doing Psalm 50:17 says hate instruction
and they hate instruction and they cast
God's words behind them so in other
words uh I I know what that says but I
don't think that's what it means
immediately I I don't think that's what
it mean it's
dangerous uh it's like those who make
Matthew 15:6 the Commandment of God of
no
effect whenever you find a loophole to
make the Commandment of God of no effect
it's like those in judges 21:25 when it
says they did what was right in his own
eyes in other words I'm following what I
think so if you're sitting there and you
think that you're smart enough that you
can do what you think's best always and
not pay attention to the word of God
you've a null
scripture it's serious it's not a joke
and we need you to be teachers of it we
need you to be schooling the Next
Generation about it uh there's a there's
a uh TV kind of a uh what do you call
them now I don't they're not really
journalists anymore so I'm not sure if I
use that word uh propagandist maybe Anna
casparian some of you may have heard her
before uh she used to be on what was
called The Young
Turks listen to this one little
statement she made I don't care what the
Bible
says listen to
her I don't care what the Bible says I
feel like it's a clown show sitting here
trying to figure out what your little
mythical book has to say I don't care
I don't care what the Bible says I'm so
tired of having non-stop conversations
about what the Bible says I don't care I
don't believe in
it you say well that's that's
terrible yeah I think
so well I'm glad that never happens in
the Kingdom oh
really I have had members of the church
tell me stop reading
the Bible I'm going to or I'm going to
leave I won't be a part of what we're
conversation we're
having I have heard members of the
church say I don't care what the Bible
says so what I'm trying to suggest to
you is schooling for it is something
we've all got to be doing and not
breaking any of the commands not acting
like I can pick and choose this is not a
cafeteria it's not a cafeteria where you
get to pick and choose
do you love your country do you love
your
kingdom yeah it's questionable sometimes
isn't it all right let's go to the next
one love your
country which is God's kingdom by
soliciting for it Matthew chapter 6
veres 10 through1 13 one of the reasons
I did that whole thing about the Kingdom
at the beginning listen to these words
your kingdom come your will be done this
is a prayer Your Kingdom Come the prayer
we've talked to say your kingdom come
your your will be done on Earth as it is
in heaven and then verse 13 and do not
lead us into temptation but Deliver Us
from the evil one for yours is the
kingdom and the power and the glory
forever we should be soliciting for the
kingdom to come I I want to talk about
that just a minute
because if you could pray that the
kingdom would come and it would come
right now would you pray
it I I
think I'm going to go somewhere
somebody's going to really not like this
I think sometimes we don't like even the
Theology of the thousand year reign of
Christ because we really don't want
Christ to Reign on the
earth not because necessarily we know
the theology behind
it I think as as Disciples of Christ we
should want Christ to tr truly Reign on
Earth truly that's what we should want
and we should be soliciting for
it your kingdom come your will be done
on Earth that's what it
said number
next love your country God's kingdom by
seeking for it seeking for it Matthew 6
this is all from The Sermon on the Mount
by the way if you're wondering why I'm
going down this route this is just the
Sermon on the Mount and what it says
about the kingdom that's what that's all
I'm doing this is well every time it
mentions the kingdom in The Sermon on
the Mount that's what you're getting
about in Matthew 6:3 32 and 33 it says
this for after all these things the
Gentiles
seek it seeks if you really analyze
it let me put it a different way after
all these things America
seeks for your heavenly father knows
that you need all these
things but seek first the kingdom of God
and his righteousness and all these
things shall be added to you
seeking for the kingdom the word seek
here means eagerly inquire
for and it it says first which means
foremost which implies if you seek first
the kingdom of God then it implies that
there are other
kingdoms it implies that there are other
countries it implies that there are
other foms on the planet right now as we
seek that you could seek first first
like your own kingdom your little family
whatever but it says seek first the
kingdom and then and his righteousness
which implies that there are other
righteousnesses there are other
righteousnesses there is a thing called
self-righteousness there is a thing
called societal righteousness where
people in our society think that they're
more moral than the things that written
in
scriptures they think they found
Superior
path so seek his kingdom first and his
righteousness first we
cannot get what we really want here
without his kingdom being present listen
Luke 24: 5 and 6 says why do you seek
the living among the dead he's not here
but risen folks there's just really
trying to
seek this
to become that without
him doesn't make any
sense we cannot get a country worthy of
all your soul your mind and your
strength and your
effort apart from him and in Colossians
3: 1 and 2 it says this seek those
things which are
above seek those things which are above
where Christ is seated at the right hand
of God set your mind on things
above not on things on the
earth Steve Jobs his last words he's
pretty wealthy wasn't he did pretty good
apple he said this in the end this is
his last words according to what I read
in the end my wealth is only a fact of
life that I am accustomed to at this
moment lying on my bed and recalling my
life I realized that all the recognition
and wealth that I took so much pride in
have piled and have become
meaningless in the face of my
death what good is
it so seek for it with all you have the
kingdom solicit for it finally last
Point love your country which is God's
kingdom that's your real country that's
your real citizenship love your country
God's kingdom by submitting to it and
then the the last one in this reference
to the kingdom is Matthew 7: 211 not
everyone who says to me Lord Lord shall
enter the kingdom of heaven but he who
does the will of my Father in heaven so
even though Jesus was King on Earth and
even though he preached the Kingdom on
Earth uh this is talking about entering
the kingdom again referencing to what I
was talking about earlier and not
receiving it yet in this world so
submitting to it now as if it was fully
here and what that implies is that I
must do every let let's just put it like
this okay let's just say that Jesus sat
on a
throne right now on this planet and he
had
armies and he had police officers and
they were all Angels right let's just go
there all of his police officers are
angels all of his armies are
angels the laws on the street out there
are his laws the laws everywhere are his
laws you going to do
them it's easier to say he's my Lord
than it is to accept to accept him as
your
lord it's easier to do do what looks
religious than it is to do all the
commands with the right heart do you
fully submit to his
kingdom I mean that's what we're
supposed to love right
shrinking for it suffering for schooling
for soliciting for seeking for it and
submitting to it
okay this is kind of a different kind of
a story so let me end with this is going
to be an odd story you a like this story
Herman and Henrietta Herman and
Henrietta have been living up in Canada
and so they're going to move to Florida
the God blessed state right I mean this
is the closest thing to Kingdom on earth
right yeah right anyway so they moved to
Florida and uh they got off the airplane
and Henrietta says to Henry honey I want
you to know that if it wasn't for my
money we wouldn't be here right now
Herman didn't say a word they then got
in their car and they drove to their new
dream house which Henrietta had paid for
and all of her money had gone toward
that and they went room by room through
the house when they got about to the
last room and they' seen it all
Henrietta says to Herman honey I want
you to know that if it wasn't for my
money we wouldn't be
here Herman didn't say a
word that afternoon the furniture that
Henrietta had ordered and paid for came
up in the in the van and they were there
and it's all unloaded and it's all put
in all the rooms just the way she wanted
it when he got through says honey if it
wasn't for my money none of this
Furniture would be
here Herman didn't say a
word just sat there another truck came
with stereos and TVs and computers and
TVs were mounted on the walls and
special Electronics where every room was
had all the electronic gadgets you could
imagine and you guessed it Henrietta
said to Herman honey if it wasn't for my
money none of these things would be here
finally Herman spoke up this first time
he spoke he said you know honey if it
wasn't for your money I wouldn't be here
either here's the
truth if it wasn't for the
blood if it wasn't for the purchase that
Jesus made I wouldn't be here none of us
would be here Christ did
that his cross purchased our home in
heaven our home in the Kingdom you
didn't purchase
it wasn't your money that did it wasn't
your
blood so when he asked us to love his
kingdom and when he asked us to go that
second Mile and to really show our love
our dedication as citizens of that
Kingdom I think he has a right since he
paid for the house and the furniture and
the flight and the rooms and everything
in
it I think he has the right and you can
complain about
it but it's the reason we're actually
all here so if you would like to be in
it come join us repenting of your sins
confessing the name of Christ being
baptized this very night lest all make
the kingdom our citizenship the number
one thing and love it with all of our
heart won't you come while we stand and
while we sing
