finding my purpose in the Lord this is
the fourth the final one of these so
you're probably some of you're going to
finally um reverse engineering reverse
engineering have you heard of that okay
so
UFOs this is a book by the way a book
about UFOs by Steven Arman Medina III uh
he says that there's such a thing as
reverse engineering uh to learn the
physics involved in something you don't
understand and he's talking about it for
UFOs but reverse engineering is a real
thing not about I don't know about UFOs
but reverse engineering is a process in
which software or machines or aircraft
or maybe even UFOs are taken apart if
such things exist learn how they work
and then the reason you do that sort of
thing take software apart people a lot
of companies have stolen parts of
software from each other and uh the idea
is to duplicate it and maybe tweak it
just enough that you don't get in
trouble with violating copyrights it's
done quite a lot so uh really when
you're doing that with a piece of
equipment let's just say that they did
find a UFO and they did do this uh you
have no idea possibly what the purpose
of the thing
is and what it can do and that would be
about as dangerous as a thing is messing
with an atomic bomb and redoing an
atomic bomb it would actually be a very
very very dangerous thing to do and so
two messing with people's stuff and
reverse engineering it is dangerous
because the law will come after you if
you're not careful so it's not something
you need to do and here's the thing it's
because you don't really you're trying
to take the end product and reverse
engineer it and figure out what its
purpose is and you have no idea what his
purpose is it's kind of like working
backward from your life if you take the
event of your life and you work backward
from it to try try to figure out what
your purpose is that's actually a
dangerous way of trying to figure out
your purpose that isn't the way we're to
do it you don't take what's happened in
your life and then say oh now I know
what my purpose is no you're liable to
come up with the wrong purpose there you
see many do not see that they per their
purpose at all and and the steps of
life because the steps of Life are
ordered by god let's take a look at a
few verses here uh did that shift no it
didn't okay there we go uh Psalm
37:23 the steps of a good man or ordered
by the Lord and He Delights in his
ways Proverbs 16:9 a man's heart plans
his ways but the Lord directs his steps
Proverbs 20:24 a man's steps are of the
Lord how then can a man understand his
own way Jeremiah 10:23 famous one a lot
of people quote Oh Lord I know the way
of man is not in himself it is not a man
who walks to direct his own steps so the
Lord helps us find our steps and if we
think we can backward engineer it that's
dangerous see many do not see that
purpose is found in the Lord now you're
Christians you should but not everybody
does as they live their own way they do
not see their purpose see one can say
and not do you ever heard of that they
say but they don't do they don't
practice what they preach Matthew 23:3
mentions that they say and do not some
Christians do that right say and do not
do one can say and do that is they do
practice what they preach so disciples
need to do that they need to prepare
their heart to do they have to prepare
their heart to learn what to do and then
to do and then later they learn to
preach and Proclaim what they've learned
to do that's what Ezra did Ezra
7:10 Romans 2:21 tells us to that we
learned to prepare our heart to seek God
in worship and and that's something I
know you may because you've been coming
to church all your life maybe and you
might not feel the need to that but
we're supposed to get our heart in the
right place before we come
here it's not good to come here from
just anything you need to prepare
yourself uh I highly recommend you know
praying for you come I highly recommend
listening to Good gospel singing before
you come I highly recommend to listen to
a preacher maybe online before you come
I highly recommend for you to spend some
time within your family talking about
spiritual things before you actually
walk in this building and you're
settting down to worship God because
quite honestly to make that shift from
there to over here it's it's really hard
to do sometimes and you spend the first
15 20 minutes not really doing anything
but catching up uh but then there was
one guy who didn't say and and did not
or who said and do he was the guy we
talked about this a couple of weeks ago
uh one who did and then he said he
preached what he practice remember Acts
chapter 1 he began both to do and to
teach that was Jesus and Luke 11 verse1
and they saw him praying and then they
said Lord teach us to pray he did and
then he taught that's the way we should
be but I'm afraid sometimes we get it
backwards our text that was read a
moment ago and and and I I was
interested in everybody hearing 1
through 25 and then I thought that's a
lot to read tonight so yeah uh 3-7 is
the actual text we're going to be
looking at so if you want to follow with
me that's where I would mainly say you
to go uh Psalm 37 verse three there's
going be some other verses but here we
go number one I find my purpose when I
trust in the Lord so these are ways we
find our purpose in the Lord I find my
purpose when I trust in the Lord so my
purpose is to trust in his faithfulness
why because that's what it says in verse
three trust in the Lord and do good
dwell in the land and feed on his
faithfulness that's what gives you the
strength to go on so you need to trust
that the Lord is absolutely faithful the
Lord has never lied to any of us ever
ever ever ever ever and he never will so
that's one thing we need to do and see
if we do that we'll find our purpose in
that knowing what's next is okay because
we still trust in the Lord my purpose is
also to trust in his Fortress he
protects us Psalm 62:8 puts it this way
trust in him at all times no matter
what's going on in your life you people
pour out your heart before him God is a
refuge for us so flee to him that that's
what you should do trust him so much
that when things are caving in on you
use him as a refuge he's your Fortress
run to him and my purpose in trusting in
the Lord my purpose is to trust in his
foresight I need to trust in his
faithfulness I need to trust that his
Fortress will protect me but I need to
trust in his foresight Proverbs 3: 5 and
6 we haven't been reading the whole
thing this last month but you know the
first part trust in the Lord with all
your heart lean not on your own
understanding in verse six in all your
ways most of you probably know this you
probably memorized in all your ways
acknowledge Him and He Shall direct your
paths or your ways so that's basically
you need to trust that he knows what's
coming and we need to trust in him in
the middle of that so I find my purpose
when I trust in the Lord that he will be
faithful that he will build a fortress
where I can flee to him and he will have
a foresight to know what's coming the
second thing that is
critical I don't think it changed it
there we that change it yeah it did I
find my purpose when I Delight in the
Lord that's still in this text verse
four delight yourself also in the Lord
and He Shall give you the desires of
your heart my purpose is to Delight in
his contributions to my life there we
are so blessed amen amen we are just so
blessed and blessed you don't need half
the stuff you've got to survive you
could survive and suddenly you lost half
of everything you have you could still
survive this week you'd eat you'd still
be able to eat you still be able to move
on stuff so many things that we've been
provided and he is constantly and and so
when you get blessed delight yourself in
it I mean literally sit around and say
isn't this great God's been so good
God's good to us God's good all the time
delight yourself this morning when we
were talking about Tiffany lore and what
God's done for her we delighted in it
right we Delight in it we need to
Delight in what God does for us and how
he gives us the desires of our heart
Psalm 94: 19 talks about in the
multitude of my anxieties within me your
Comforts Delight my soul so my purpose
in this is to Delight in his
consolations how many times has the Lord
conso me I'm tore up about something so
upset about something worried about
something and somebody or something will
come in and say it's going to be okay
it's just sometimes it's just a word a
word at church one of you probably
spoken something to me before and gave
me more courage and more blessed than
than I even know now forgotten it but
got through something it happens more
often than than you can imagine it
church amen when somebody just says or
somebody just shows you some love and
you really needed it that day it was it
was one of those days and uh it was what
you needed Isaiah 58:14 talks about then
you shall delight yourself in the Lord
again there's Where It's At You Delight
in the Lord and I will cause you to ride
on the high hills of the earth and feed
you with the heritage of Jacob your
father the mouth of the Lord has spoken
it my my purpose is to Delight in the
celebrations with God's people I need to
be I need to understand that he has
placed us on a high heel he has given us
a high position and we feed together
with each other it's one of the greatest
blessings on Earth in my opinion is to
be able to sit down and eat but I tell
you what having a cup of coffee with you
guys on Sunday morning having a cookie I
don't need to have the cookie but having
a cookie with y'all and talking and just
spending a moment or two how are you
doing I'm great how are you doing what's
going on with you this week it is
critical and I'm just telling you
straight up it it may not seem like it
but trust in the Lord is critical so
that I can fulfill my purpose for the
Lord but to Delight in the Lord ah keeps
us going doesn't it number
next I find my purpose when I commit to
the Lord my purpose is to commit my my
way to him Psalm 37:5 still in Psalm 37
if you're there verse 5 commit your way
to the Lord trust also in him and he
shall bring it to pass whatever you're
pushing toward your way what you're
trying to accomplish for him so commit
my way to the Lord I find my purpose
when I fully commit my ways to him I be
to see him working in that path I got to
tell you I won't go into it because
don't have time right now how many times
my wife could tell you but how many
times since we've been preparing to go
on this trip that God has done something
to make it possible that we could go on
this trip we're going on and it's like
Oodles of times many things have
occurred to get us where we could go so
I just praise the Lord for all of that
uh my purpose is to commit
my worry to him so not only does do I
need to commit my way how I'm going to
do whatever it is that God wants me to
do but I need to commit all my worry to
him so I don't worry about how
everything's going to work out one of
the worst things you can do is sit
around and figure out how you're going
to get everything done I'm going to tell
you straight up it never turns out the
way you figured it it never turns out
the way you were certain it was going to
be I mean that's just doesn't happen
that way not for me psalm
55:22 cast your burden on the Lord give
it to him and he shall sustain you he
shall never permit the righteous to be
moved so cast it on him commit all your
worry to him I commit my way how I'm
going to get there I commit my worry
about all the things that could go wrong
to him and he will sustain you and my
purpose is also to commit my Works to
him so when I'm talking about things I
want to do for him commit those to him
too s proverbs 16:3 commit your Works to
the Lord and your thoughts will be
established God will make what you've
been thinking about that you want to do
for him right he'll make it come to pass
things will happen and you'll be
surprised at what God will do to make
that happen so I find my purpose when I
commit to the Lord when I Delight in the
Lord and when I literally trust in him
and then where we're going to now is
still in this text Psalm
37:6 I find my purpose when I this may
sound funny when I
represent in the Lord so stay with me
this might be the most interesting one
for you it says in verse
6 he shall bring forth your
righteousness as the
light and your justice as the noon day
so that's a little bit of a head
scratcher what is he saying there my
purpose is is to represent his light of
justice so what's my purpose in this
world one of the things that I'm
supposed to do is represent the light of
God's justice his rightousness but
particularly his Justice I'm supposed to
make it clear now Justice doesn't mean
what you're thinking I don't have to go
down the court it's not about law that
way it's about God's law it's about
what's really fair and right to do
toward other people so if we treat
everybody absolutely fairly in fact if
we go overboard and we are even more
than just toward everyone else and they
see that we'll almost hurt oursel
financially to make sure that we would
not mistreat somebody else right we will
do that 1 Corinthians 6 we we are not
about just making money no matter what
it takes no no no no we want them to see
the light of the justice of God that's
that's our purpose I need to represent
him in that and then secondly my purpose
is to represent his light of
righteousness which is similar but
righteousness in the Old Testament
mainly means fairness but in Psalm 97:1
it says light is sown for the righteous
and gladness for the upright in heart so
light is like a way of planting a seed
uh for righteous
so we need to be super Fair super right
in what we do and we end up representing
his righteousness so you're representing
his Justice his light his Justice his
light his righteousness and his life so
that's our our purpose and then finally
in this one point my purpose is to
represent his light of
kindness wow listen to this passage
Isaiah 5810
if you extend your soul not your money
did you hear that if you extend your
soul to the
hungry and satisfy The Afflicted
obviously that means you're going to do
something but you extend your soul to
the hungry and satisfy The Afflicted
Soul then your light shall Dawn in the
darkness and your Darkness shall be as
noon day I love that I absolutely love
that so here's what I part of my purpose
is is I need to represent in the Lord I
need to be one of those that represented
the Lord so I represent his light of
Justice I represent his light of
righteousness and I represent his light
of kindness in a world where people
aren't very kind we need to be the ones
that show the way to be kind we need to
show the one all around us those people
how to live right and we need to show
the people around us how to live justly
that's what we need to do that's our
purpose number
last I find my purpose when I wait in
the Lord this is probably the hardest
one in this list that he goes through my
purpose is to wait to be prospered by
the
Lord see you're going to go through
times when it thickness is not the
description of your wallet
thinness will be the description of her
wallet everybody does that there will be
times when you're not quite sure how
you're going to get from point A to
point B how you get from the front end
of the month to the back end of the
month how you make ends meet it says
Psalm
37:7 rest in the Lord by the way the
word rest there means to absolutely do
nothing it's me needs to literally be
quiet and do nothing rest in the Lord
and wait patiently for
him do not fret because of him who
prospers in his ways there's always
going to be somebody out there making
moment around you that's not living for
the Lord at all it's always going to be
true it will always be true sometimes
it'll be somebody that you just don't
believe should have anything but he will
because the man who brings wicked
schemes to pass there's always somebody
out there doing wicked things and making
aend at it and he just simply says this
wait patiently for him do not fret
because of him who prospers what is
happening with them has nothing to do
with what God's doing with you it's got
nothing to do with you so wait to be
prospered by him the second thing my
purpose is to not just wait to be
prospered wait to be patient for him one
of the great things we have to learn is
patience Psalm 40 verse1 I waited
patiently for the Lord and He inclined
to me and heard my cry and and you I'm
sure you've probably experienced this
but you may have forgotten it there been
a moment in your life or many
moments when you prayed and you prayed
and nothing happened you saw nothing and
you prayed and you
prayed nothing
happened and it looked like nothing was
going to
happen it was
never going to
happen but you waited you didn't give up
on your
faith and you
waited Abraham waited 25
years how long will you wait but he
inclined to me and heard my cry and he
will do the same for you he will you
just must wait so my purpose is to wait
and to display that patience that God is
trying to encourage me to have but my
purpose is to wait to be preserved by
him you see I may not think I'm going to
make it spiritually you may be sitting
here and say I doubt I'll ever make it
to heaven I'm just maybe y'all you'll
get there but not me I'm not going to
make it I'm not like everybody else up
at
church I'm not going to make it Proverbs
20:22 do not say I will recompense evil
I'm I'm not going to make it so I'm just
going to get people back and done me
wrong I'm going to give this up I'm
going to quit being kind and patient
I've had it
I'm going to show you how I can really
be do not say I will recompense evil
wait for the
Lord and He will save
you say well wait a second you mean he's
going to get those guys no that's not
what he said he said he'll save you if
you just learn to wait just got to wait
so what's my purpose well my purpose in
the Lord is is different from the way
people people take what happens in their
life and they read backwards well the
Lord hadn't showed up there is no Lord
you know they read backwards that's
dangerous but if you read the word okay
I find my purpose in the Lord as my
steps are ordered by the Lord even
though I don't see it I find my purpose
in the Lord when I trust in the Lord and
I just trust she said well doesn't make
any sense why are you trusting in Him
I find my purpose by trusting in Him and
when I Delight in the Lord when I see
what he does do when he gives me good
things and I Delight in it then I'm
fulfilling my purpose when I commit to
the Lord to do the right thing no matter
how it turns
out and when I representing the Lord how
you're really supposed to live in a
world that isn't for God and then when I
wait in the Lord and I keep waiting and
keep waiting is he going to come through
for me you'll ask
that you'll ask
it you'll have doubts at
times but he comes
through those people who know he came
through can can I hear you does he come
through he comes through and some of you
younger who haven't seen it he comes
through does that mean he does
everything the way I wanted him almost
never almost never
that before Abraham Lincoln was uh
elected
president he's a
businessman he's a store
owner he owned a little store in Salem
Illinois he had rifles he sold rifles
one of the rifles that he had that he's
selling was a beautiful piece of
equipment up on the wall was like
Absolut the barrel was made from the
finest steel the stock was made from
Walnut I mean that's expensive wood in
and of itself I don't know what you know
about particularly black walnut it's one
of the most expensive Woods out there
and world famous gunsmith had assemble
this gun
together and a man came in was looking
at guns he saw this gun up on the wall
wow what a beautiful gun that is and
then he looked at the squirrel
rifles that were in the shop and they
were about as ugly as you can imagine
they just nothing to brag about a
squirrel rifle okay why a squirrel rifle
because it's one of the major ways the
guys fed themselves killing squirrels
y'all got too many squirrels in your
neighborhood we should kill them and eat
them but probably wouldn't your wife
wouldn't cook them you had hadn't lived
until you've uh killed and eaten a
squirrel suck the brains out of their
head whatever so uh it's actually quite
good but shows you how country I
actually am so y'all y'all think I'm
from a town I'm I'm I'm country so I've
eaten squirrel quite a few times it's
good so so squirrel rifles ugly ugly
guns ugly right squirrel rifles more
expensive than that beautiful
gun hanging on the
wall the man said I don't understand
that thing's stunning it's so beautiful
and these little old squirrel rifles
cost way more what's the deal he said
that beautiful gun isn't for hunting
it's for putting up on the mtle and
looking like you knew what you was doing
a squirrel rifle is actually for doing
what you supposed to go do and shoot
something and he said sure enough a guy
came in and bought the fancy one he had
a mansion out in the country he bought
that beautiful gun he didn't want but he
had killed a few things they were up on
the wall he had big antler animals up
there and he put that squirrel right it
looked beautiful up there with all of
those animal heads it looked great he
was
happy but the guy that came in
originally bought a squirrel
rifle because it was about what its
purpose was you see it's not about how
it looks it's not about what everybody
thinks about you it's what your purpose
is your your purpose is
in the
Lord that's your purpose do what you do
in the
Lord don't set at the end of your life
and try to figure out what's purpose
purpose is right here in the Lord so if
you're here tonight and you've been
focusing on externals and trying to
figure out what your life's all about
from what's going on in it that's it's
not the way you figure out your life you
get in the
Lord then you know what your purpose is
if you'd like to get in the Lord we'll
do everything we can to help you do that
tonight just make your wishes known
while we stand it while we say
