now we could be distracted and lost on
our path of life sometimes we think we
know what we're doing and then suddenly
we get distracted it's kind of like
there was a duck this is a maybe a true
story sounds like it could be a true
story there was this duck that somehow
broke its wing and a farmer found the
duck and so he thought well I'll take it
home and nurse it back to help then it
can fly on
but his kids kind of made it their pet
and so they fed the duck from the table
and they overfed the duck so before the
duck even got to the the time of the
year the fall when the Ducks were flying
over and they're quacking above he his
arm is still broke I mean his wing still
broke and so he's not able to fly he
just stands out in the yard and quacks a
little bit and then goes back and plays
with the kids who've been feeding him
and he's getting fatter the next year
though is when is all strong he could
fly but that year uh as the ducks began
to quack overhead he attempts to fly he
goes out there and flutters a little bit
but he's gained so much weight he's now
such a fat duck that he can't get off
the ground and so he's a little
frustrated but in a few minutes he gives
up on it and he goes back to playing
with the children finally the third year
he's completely healed even though last
year his arm was a little sore and he
was a little bit fat he's completely
healed healed and he's not even fat like
he was he's running around having fun
with the kids and then they come and the
ducks start quacking above he doesn't
even look up he just keeps playing with
the
children in the third
year he had forgotten his
purpose he forgot what he was made to
do and he never looked back at it I'm
afraid if we're not careful
the true meaning of life for us and what
our purpose really is can get lost in
the shuffle we can get so busy with
other things and having fun with our
friends that we forget what we're really
about when we travel a similar thing can
happen when you're traveling around the
country uh we get lost uh GPS has been a
wonderful thing amen wives so because
now they you're not asking them to stop
and ask for directions so it's a great
thing a path is easier to find but if we
don't have such a thing as that a trip
uh then even can be direct if you don't
have something like ways or something
like that you might not be aware that
there's an accident ahead of you or
there's a place that you got to change
you can't keep going there's a roadblock
ahead and that happens in life too
Roadblocks come uh there's twists and
turns and we can lose our way we may ask
oursel if we're even on God's path you
may be sitting there I wouldn't even
know God's path if it hit me actually
you probably
would uh if we would seek God's path for
our life I believe that he will help us
find that path Psalm 143:8 says that he
caused me to know the way in which which
I should walk can God cause me to know
the way well yeah I mean he can cause me
to know the way in which I should walk
Proverbs 3:6 acknowledge Him and He
Shall
direct your path so yeah you can know
the path you should take so for those of
you may be graduating and for those of
you who are in the middle of your life
and may be struggling with what you
should do with your life or for those of
you who are like me kind of in the
latter stages maybe it's all of us need
to look at the Bible kind of like a
GPS maybe it could realign us with the
direction we should be going so I just
look at just three simple lessons and
I'll be done this is not a fancy lesson
number one God's path for your life is
found by avoiding the sinner's path
this is the main thrust of this CH text
if you look at what we read a moment ago
it's all about taking the right paths in
this text verses 14 and 15 I'll read
them again for you do not enter the path
of the wicked and do not walk in the way
of evil avoid it do not travel on it
turn away from it and pass on here's
what happens to us all When We're Young
we are live in our home with our mom and
our
dad and they control us maybe more than
we wish it's often the case they've been
trying to build a fence around us trying
to funnel us in a Direction that's smart
but of course we disagreed with it we
didn't like it they made us do things we
didn't want to do they held Us in
position and
now I'm graduating
I can go the way I
want and so most often we
do and we decide that we're smarter than
they are in fact we've known that for
years and we're smarter than our mom and
dad and now we're going to go the
direction we've decided and we think
some of the stuff that they've said we
shouldn't do just looks like fun and
they're just wrong wrong so we try out
the sinful path we should avoid it it is
the wise thing to do but most of us
aren't as wise as we think we
are and so we try stuff and what I'm
suggesting to you young people
is maybe even if you don't like the fact
that your mom and dad Mage do stuff you
you ought to be smart enough to avoid
the sinner's path for your own sake not
because your mama and dad said it but
for your own sake and safety because it
might just save your life little less
your soul the second truth I want you to
see is God's path for your life is found
by discovering The Shining path oh yes
there is a shining path listen to what
it says in verses 18 and 19 but the path
of the just is like The Shining Sun that
shines ever brighter until the day of
perfection The Way of the Wicked is like
Darkness they do not know what makes
them stumble now you may be wondering
what in the world is brother duton
talking about if you see it you will
know you just haven't seen it yet if you
see it you will know what The Shining
path is it's the obvious do you
understand what I'm saying The Shining
path is the obvious based upon a few
things that you know right it's just the
obvious path that makes the most sense
of your life that will keep you going
the right way it becomes brighter the
more you look at it the more you focus
on it the brighter the path is and the
more certain you are of what God would
have you to do in any given circumstance
you don't even have to pick out your
Bible and say I wonder what God would
have me to do oh no it becomes brighter
and brighter and brighter and brighter
and you know exactly what you should do
and you see it that's The Shining path
but you have to discover it you have to
look for it
you can't just look and say a nobody
knows oh no we do
know and we know what's right and what's
wrong amen old
people number
three God's path for your life is found
by pondering the straight path by
pondering the straight path you know
sometimes you have to think think about
it now I just talked about stuff that
you you're just going to if you really
worked on this you're just going to know
sometimes though there are things you
have to ponder have to think about it
look at what it says verses 26 and 27
Ponder the path of your feet and let all
your ways be established do not turn to
the right or to the left remove your
foot from evil
sometimes you're going to go you
know that looks
right and that looks right you ever
notice
that sometimes that's where you are
you're like well that looks pretty
good and that looks pretty good right
and you saying I've read my Bible and
I'm not sure here's what I recommend you
do think on
it when you you mean think on it I
believe God will guide you but if you
don't think about it maybe not just
ponder it think on it a minute and pray
about it and suddenly the straight path
will become here's the thing you know we
talk about straight people or straight
yall know that discussion you know where
that comes from that's an Old English
term uh it's the word right live right
you know the old English term for right
and straight mean the same
thing a right line was a straight line
you know that's straight it's a right
line and so when we are doing things
right we're doing things straight we're
cutting along an edge we are to rightly
divide the word of truth that means to
keep it straight and so that means in
your
life Ponder the fact pick a course stick
with
it okay young
people pick a course you can't do that
pick a course stick with it even when
you don't see well that looks pretty
good and then pick a
course stick with it do nor
go well but but go but but I see some of
go but I I could think you know that
there just that's just funny day no go
that's the way you live your life on
that straight path not turning to the
right not turning to the
left so that's the lesson today simply
put that's what we all need to do we
need to avoid the Sinner's path which
will potentially destroy your life
particularly your
soul discover that shining path because
you spend enough time in the word the
more you stare at your path the more you
know and then Ponder the straight path
because it really makes sense to keep
going the right
way uh without his
path we do like that duck we end up
losing in our purpose and we may end up
worthless to what we were meant to be
the only purpose I see to that duck is
to be dinner at this point other than
playing with kids right that's where he
may end up Yogi Bea said a dime isn't
worth a nickel
anymore I think sometimes we forget that
what we think is valuable can become
worthless uh a teacher said what is a
pencil good for if it cannot make a mark
the kids all answered back nothing and
so she said don't be good for
nothing Make Your Mark there's a purpose
for your life you are to make a mark in
this world every one of us are little
boy said to his mother mom if you'd give
me
$5 I'd be good the rest of this day and
the mom said why can't you be like your
dad he's good for nothing
so but we really
should be
good for
nothing if you could only realize your
true
value what you say a what do you mean
what's your true
value you know I don't
know but it's big what do you mean I
don't know
I want to talk about something real
quick here I have
nothing but truth and yet I don't know
what I'm talking about can I do
that God sent his
son from
Heaven to die on a
cross so that you could live forever
that means you have a
purpose I don't know what it
is but you have a purpose and it means
so much to God that you fulfill that
purpose he sent his son to die for you
that means to him you're like the most
valuable thing in the universe
I can't explain
that there's a little girl at a foundy
foundy at a county a foundy care a
county
fair you should go to a familyy
care at a county fair and she was eating
cotton candy but it was one of you know
it she hadn't just got a little bit
whoever made her cotton candy had made a
big one you know most of them about say
about that b she Ain got one that's just
nearly bigger than her and she's walking
along with this cotton candy eating it
and a fell said to her uh how can a
little girl like you eat all that cotton
candy and she looked up at it looked at
the man says well I'm really much bigger
on the inside than I am on the
outside you're
really much bigger on the inside
than you are on the
outside there really is something that
the universe is waiting on and you're
it if you give yourself to it if you
follow the path of the lord it's up to
you the path is always available so if
you don't turn right now to the end of
this lesson it's still available you can
turn tomorrow if there is a tomorrow
but there is a
today you can turn today repent of your
sins confess the name of Christ be
baptized or just put your feet back on
the path pay attention don't pay
attention to anything I've said to you
today forget it all remember Proverbs
chapter 4 want you come if you need to
while we stand while we
s um today we want to take uh some time
just to congratulate our uh
graduating high
schoolers while they're getting ready
the um back where are come from in South
Africa we don't do much of a big thing
for this time of our our our life but we
do uh celebrate a milestone of the 21st
birthday and so at our 21st my my 21st
birthday you know we had a nice dinner
we had friends and uh my father he got
up and the sense of humor that he has he
put up an Excel spreadsheet
and he had every single meal that I'd
ever had as a baby up until that point
and how much each meal cost and he put
up clothing and travel and expenses and
at the bottom he had a total of how much
I owed him right and uh you know I shout
it out I hope you have a good lawyer but
whatever but what I'm saying is I want
to First congratulate the parents um
well done uh your your children who are
graduating might not know where not
might not always know the sacrifices
that you've made the money that you've
put in the the hardships the the times
when you've struggle through jobs and
not sure if you're going to have a job
and how you're going to put a roof of
your kids heads and taxes and all these
things so congratulations well done and
on top of that you find yourselves in a
congregation today who worships Christ
and you've brought your kids along and
you've you've shown them the way so
congratulations on that really well done
to our graduating high schoolers
congratulations I'm going to call you up
one by one and I would like you guys to
stand up here because we want to pray
over you because you're only 20% of the
way through your
life and so we want to just pray over
you and give you a special blessing uh
as you as you grow so first up who we
got let's go Andrew Phillips come on
down Andrew just give him a hand
anayah Hunter
Dwayne Thomas
Jr norus Morales Nori
uh Steven Williams
and last but not least tjon
Johnson all on everybody
Let's uh let's take a time to pray for
these uh these young individuals thank
you our dearest God our heavenly father
Lord we are so grateful for the God that
you are father we thank you
for for sending your son Jesus to die on
the cross for us that we could have
Fellowship uh with one another but
mostly with you father father we want to
thank you especially for this time that
we could gather to to hear your word and
also Father to to take some time to
congratulate and celebrate the
achievements uh of these graduates
father father we know that they have a
lot to look forward to that there is a a
big life out there for them and father
we just pray specifically that you bless
them uh that they may remain faithful
that they remain strong in the faith
father that they come to an
understanding of how important this is
how important it is to know you how
important it is to follow you how
important it is to stay in your word
father and read your word and and bite
it on their hearts father we pray that
you will bless them in this in this
regard father we also pray that you'll
bless them uh for the with their health
uh emotionally father physically
mentally financially all those things
father we pray that you'll bless them in
many ways that helps them to navigate
this world father also help them to
realize that they have a wonderful
congregation here and when they may
stumble when they may fall father we
pray that they know that we can help
them that we can uh get around them
Father and uh and be with them and help
them through their their tough
times father we pray that you guide us
to to be good Christians to to show
these these young people the way to show
them how it's done to show them how
amazing Your Grace is for us father we
love you so much we thank you so much
for Jesus in his name we pray amen
