I think we all have limits we may not
realize it but heard of this one state
trooper that's sitting on the side of an
interstate and all of a sudden a car
came by it was one of those big cars you
know way back in the day when it's like
a battleship there a big car coming by
uh certainly not a Tesla so it's coming
by but it was only going 22 mil an hour
and the St thought well that's as
dangerous on an
interstate as going Speedy so he pulled
him
over and there were nothing but old
ladies in there there's two old ladies
in the front and three old ladies in the
back I don't mean anything by that I'm
going trying to throw off on any of you
who are a little older I'm just saying
that's the way it looked and he noticed
that the the ladies in the back look
really disheveled I mean they looked
upset and the lady that was driving he
said why'd you pull me over said well
and she said I I I wasn't driving over
the speed limit I was driving exactly
the speed
limit and the state trooper said no
ma'am 22 is not the speed limit it's the
highway we're
on said but before I leave you I'm not
going to write you a ticket but before I
leave you why are the ladies in the back
so upset he said oh we just got off of
Highway
135
there have to be
limits there have to be limits for us
all and we have them and some though
will never be convinced I I know it's
sad some will never be convinced no
matter the evidence you show them I know
you think you can convince anybody it's
not been my
experience I would love that to be true
that anybody could be talked to
reasonably but that not what I've
seen what I've seen is Luke
16:31 if they do not hear Moses in the
prophets neither will they be persuaded
though one rise from the dead even if
you could put somebody that had been
Dead Alive in front of them they' think
it was a trick Luke
2267 if I tell you you will by no means
believe is what was just read to you a
moment ago and he was right because he
told them and they did not believe Jesus
God's son in person I've never met him
like that Jesus God's son in person
capable of Miracles performing Miracles
taught every day warned people argued
with people gave them reasons prayed
over those people predicted that they
would not listen and that they would
kill him and that's what happened
so there are limits to those people out
there and what they're capable of
hearing and what they're capable of
receiving they have limits because quite
honestly often their heart is hard or
they're just stubborn or they just think
they're smarter than everybody else or
they think they've studied something
that we haven't studied which I mean
really that seems a little childish
doesn't it that because we will look at
everything right we're not afraid of
looking at everything in fact I enjoy
listening to atheists give their
arguments I really do I like to listen
to it I want to hear what they got to
say and I want to hear it I listen to
that stuff all the time Exodus 7:13
Pharaoh's heart grew hard and he did not
heed them if you get a hard heart Psalm
95 if you will hear his voice do not
Harden your heart it's a real problem
Isaiah 438 blind people who have eyes
and the deaf who have ears so you can
have eyes and be blind and you can have
ears and be deaf Matthew 13 talks about
that verse 14 the prophecy of Isaiah is
fulfilled which says hearing you will
hear and shall not understand and seeing
you will see and not perceive for the
hearts of this people have grown dull
their ears are hard of hearing and their
eyes they have CL closed lest they
should see with their eyes and hear with
their ears lest they should understand
with their hearts and turn so that I
should heal them it's funny to me when
somebody wants to say to me oh but
there's scripture that not in the Bible
and that's fishy or there's some
pseudepigraph out there and I'm like do
you really think we haven't looked at
that do you really think we we don't
look at that stuff you think we haven't
looked at all that let me tell you
something your Bible is absolutely 100%
true and you have no reason to doubt it
whatsoever and anybody who tells you
different hadn't looked at the
information at all not at all Matthew
23:3 says you shut up the Kingdom of
Heaven for you neither go in nor do you
allow those who are entering to go in oh
that's a problem there are people who
want to never listen that's a reality
Romans 1:18 who suppressed the truth and
unrighteousness not only did they not
want to listen they will try to stop you
from talking to people about Jesus
they'll talk over you shout at you do
everything they can to prevent you from
talking to somebody about Jesus 1
Corinthians 2:14 it says the natural man
does not receive the things of the
spirit of God for they are foolish to
him foolishness to him so there are
people who just think we're crazy I
remember before I became a Christian I
thought all of you were crazy right so I
I was wrong big time in 2 Corinthians 4:
3 and 4 says if our gospel is veiled it
is veiled to those who are perishing
whose Minds the God of this age is
blinded who do not believe 2
Thessalonians 2 says this they did not
receive the love of the truth now
they'll tell you oh I just want to be
where the truth is but they don't love
the truth if they love the truth you'll
look at both sides of equation if you
won't look at both sides of an equation
if all you do it's like let me be honest
about all you who really into politics
you won't listen to both sides you're
not really somebody who loves the truth
you need to listen to both sides because
both sides are
lying just it's the truth they're both
lying you need to pay attention second
Timothy 4:4 they will turn their ears
away from the truth it's not something
new it's been around a long time so we
have limitations but so do they they
have
limitations they cannot necessarily hear
everything that we try to tell them let
me walk you through a few examples of
that they have a limitation because they
do not want to admit it they simply
don't want to
admit they are limited in their
knowledge or their understanding they
can't accept that
concept Matthew chapter 9 9-16 as Jesus
Jus passed on from there he saw a man
named Matthew sitting at the tax office
and he said to him follow me so he arose
and followed him now what happened as
Jesus sat at the table in the house that
behold many tax collectors and sinners
came and sat down with him and his
disciples and when the Pharisees saw it
they said to his disciples why does your
teacher eat with tax collect ctors and
sinners the real answer is because you
can't eat with anybody else but Sinners
but let me keep reading verse 12 when
Jesus heard that he said to them those
who are well have no need of a physician
but those who are sick but go and learn
what this means I desire mercy and not
sacrifice for I did not come to call the
righteous Sinners to repentance now as
he said saying that they're righteous no
he's saying the exact opposite they're
Sinners and they can't admit it I can't
admit the need a savior that's a problem
second
lesson they have a limitation that they
do not want it from
you yeah that's right some of your
family some of the people in this world
will listen to anybody but you
and you need to get used to that because
that's truth I've got people that don't
go to this church anymore because I
preach here and they will never come
again until I either pass away or y'all
got another
guy and then you're going to think oh
it's great they're back and about 15
minutes later they'll leave again if
that guy start preaching
anything Mark chapter 6 verses
1-6 then he went out from there and came
to his own country his own country
that's where Jesus lived normally and
his disciples followed him and when the
Sabbath had come that's Saturday for us
he began to teach in the synagogues and
many hearing him were astonished saying
where did this man get these things so
they knew him personally you know they
they went to church with him if you will
and what wisdom is this which is given
to him that such Mighty works are
performed by his hands he can do
Miracles how did this happen verse three
is this not the carpenter so they even
knew what he did kind of on the side
before he started preaching he worked
with his dad and apparently did some
carpentry work or making Furniture the
son of Mary the carpenter the son of
Mary and the brother of James Joseph
Judas and Simon and are not his sisters
here with us married apparently and they
were offended at him that's what I want
you to pay attention attention to verse
three and they were offended at him but
Jesus said to them a prophet is not
without honor except in his own country
among his own relatives and in his own
house now he could not do um could could
do no Mighty work there except that he
laid his hands on a few sick people and
healed them the only reason he couldn't
is because they wouldn't bring them to
him verse six he marveled because of
their unbelief then he went about the
villages in a circuit teaching here's
the thing it is interesting that people
that you know will listen to anybody but
you they know you too well you were
raised with them you went to school with
them and they will look at you and
they'll turn their nose up at you and if
you don't believe that's true you
haven't tried they will turn their nose
up at you so that's one of the reasons
they just can't do it they're not
willing to hear it from you
sorry number next they do not want it
God's way
one of the major reasons people will not
uh be able to receive the Gospel they
have the limit that they do not want it
God's way Mark 10: 17- 23 let me read it
to you now as he was going out on the
road one came running knelt before him
and asked him good teacher what shall I
do that I may inherit eternal life so
Jesus said to him why do you call me
good no one is good but one that is God
you know the the Commandments do not
commit adultery do not murder do not
steal do not bear false witness do not
fraud honor your father and your mother
you keep the law you go to heaven is his
point verse 20 and he answered and said
to him teacher all these things I have
kept from my youth so he's been a
faithful follower of the law verse 21
since he was a child then Jesus looking
at him loved him he thought that's
wonderful and said to him one thing you
like go way sell whatever you have and
give to the poor get rid of it all and
you will have treasure in heaven God
will bless you and come take up the
cross and follow me come work with me
but he was sad at this word and went
away sorrowful for we had great
possessions and Jesus looked around and
said to his disciples how hard it is for
those who have riches to enter the
kingdom of
God they want to do it what they want to
do it their
way I'll I'll come to Jesus but long as
you don't push me too hard I I want to
come to Grace Grace covers everything
right that's what I want to hear Grace
covers it all and so don't go talking to
me about things I need to
do
right yeah they want to do everything
but whatever God might tell them to do
that might be a little harder than they
were expecting and then all of a sudden
I'm not sure I want to do that
number
next they do not want it right
now you don't want it right now did that
turn yeah I did okay in John Chapter 4
verses 16- 29 we're going to talk about
Samaritan woman it says in verse 16
Jesus said to her go call your husband
and come here been talking to her about
water verse 17 the woman said I have no
husband
Jesus said to her you have well said I
have no husband for you have had five
husbands and the one whom you now have
is not your husband you're shacking up
and I know it there's a man at your
house but you're not married to him and
you've had five different men you've
been having a lot of fun a't you lady
you think you're gorgeous and you think
all the men love you and that's what's
been going on and you've been doing
exactly what you want to
do now it says
then verse 19 the woman said to him sir
I perceive that you were a
prophet our fathers worshiped on this
mountain and you Jews say that in
Jerusalem is the place where one ought
to worship did you notice that she just
changed the subject let's get off of
that subject I don't want you talk to me
about my morality did you pick up on
that Jesus said to her woman believe me
me the hour is coming when you will
neither on this mountain nor in
Jerusalem worship the father you worship
what you do not know we know what we
worship for salvation is of the Jews but
the hour is coming now is when the true
worshippers will worship the father in
spirit and Truth for the father is
seeking such to worship him God is
spirit and those who worship Him must
Worship in spirit and Truth the woman
said to him I know that Messiah is
coming called Christ when he he comes he
will tell us all
things Jesus said to her I who speak to
you am he now verse 28 it says the woman
then left her water pot that's unusual
and went her way into the City and said
to the men of the city come see a man
who told me all things that I ever did
could this be the Christ what I'm trying
to suggest to you is up until this
moment she wasn't ready to talk to the
Messiah she was busy bus sinning and
grinning that's right and there are a
lot of people living there and they
can't just walk away from their sin and
all of a sudden start going to church
and if you think that's not true you're
mistaken some of your relatives that you
think are wonderful people are up to no
good and you don't know what it is and
that's one of the reasons they won't
come there will be people that you know
that you can't reach because they' got
something they're
doing and they're not about to give it
up yeah that's a real
thing number
next that
is they do not want it with duties one
of the real big things that happens one
of the reasons that PE they have
limitations is they would do it if there
weren't any duties attached to it let
let's look at John 5 and I'll show you
what I'm talking about beginning in
verse one it says after this there was
was a feast of the Jews and Jesus went
up to Jerusalem now there is in
Jerusalem by the Sheep gate the pool by
the way they found this pool which is
called in Hebrew Betha having five
porches and these lay a great multitude
of sick people blind lame paralyzed
waiting for the moving of the water for
an angel went down at a certain time in
the pool and stirred up the water then
whoever stepped in first after the
stirring of the water was made well of
whatever disease he had I'm assuming
that happened but it might be just a
leged verse five now a and they all
believed it now a certain man was there
who had an infirmity 38 years he'd been
sick whatever was wrong with him 38
years that's a long time to be sick is't
it and that is a long time when Jesus
saw him lying there and knew that he
already had been in that condition a
long time 30 years plus he said to him
do you want to be made well now you may
think that's a strange question but I'm
going to tell you something there are
people who don't want to get
well are you hearing me I've seen people
lay in a bed that could get up and walk
around but whenever you came over they
hid in their bed they didn't want to
they don't want to get
well that's crazy I know but there are
people who don't want to get well they
want you to take care of
them verse seven the sick man answered
him sir I have no man to put me into the
pool see I need somebody to take care of
me I need
somebody do you really want to get well
or you just want everybody to take care
of you and play to you have you ever
known anybody that wanted to be petted
when they were
sick oh you don't know about that okay
I'll stop there when the water is
stirred up but while I'm coming another
steps down before me so I need somebody
will you help me do that Jesus said to
him rise take up your bed and walk and
immediately the man was made well took
up his bed and walked and that was the
Sabbath so he wasn't supposed to be
carrying his bed the Jews therefore said
to him who were cured is it the sa it is
the Sabbath and it is not lawful for you
to carry your bed and he answered them
he who made me wa well said to me take
up your bed and walk so in other words
don't don't put anything on me I'm not
responsible for this sounds familiar
doesn't it he hadn't been responsible
for getting well and now he's not
responsible for carrying the bed it's
always somebody else's fault do y'all
know anybody like that they blame
everybody else for the problems in their
life verse 12 then they ask him who is
the man who said to you take up your bed
and walk but the one who was healed did
not know who it was for Jesus had
withdrawn and a multitude being in that
place verse 14 afterward Jesus found him
in the temple and said to him see you've
been made well now listen to this part
sin no
more lest a worse thing come upon you
now there's a lot of implications in
that and one of them is why he was in
the mess he is in my been connected to
what he had
done in any case he needs to not do a
bad thing he needs to behave himself he
needs to be
faithful but look what he immediately
does verse 15 the man departed and told
the Jews that it was Jesus who made him
well well that's great fullness in it
immediately I'm going to tell on you
what
so there are those out there who have
limitations that they do not want it
with duties they would become a
Christian but you're asking them to do
this you're asking them to come Sunday
morning go to Sunday school come Sunday
night come Wednesday night what kind of
church is this sounds like a cult to me
what are you trying to put on
me
yeah so this is the
lesson why we cannot help everybody as
they have
limitations they don't want to admit
they have
limitations they do not want what we're
trying to give them from you and me and
they do not want it God's way they want
a different way you know they want to
say oh there's not one way to Heaven
There are many ways to heaven and they
do not want it right now they're too
busy sinning right now maybe later and
they don't want it with duties don't you
you put some Duty on
me so there are those who want it listen
to me now I'm going to change what I've
been talking
about there are those who want
it
whatever it
costs and they will dig and find out if
they have a question and know that the
scriptures are
true they will dig they're not afraid
and they will do whatever it takes to be
right with God Bill and Gloria Gaither
and Dale odm wrote back in 1976 these
words I believe in a Hill Called Mount
Calvary I
believe whatever it
costs whatever it
costs when Julius Caesar was going to
try to take
Britain so he landed with a bunch of
ships right he landed with a lot of
ships he had a lot of Legions with him
so he landed on Britain and what he did
is he had his men March over to the
Cliffs of do yall know those White
Cliffs had his men go March over there
and then said look over into the water
and in the water every ship that they'
come across on was
burning he wanted them
committed are you
committed whatever it takes are you
whatever it takes person are you well
you know I don't know I you're asking
too much of me are you a
whiner are you
committed would your would you give your
life for
this Luciano pavati who died in 2007
most of you know who he was he was an
Italian operatic tener the greatest
possibly in the world at the time here's
what he said happened in his childhood
and I think this is worth reading let me
read it to you he said when I was a boy
my father a
baker introduced me to the wonders of
song He urged me to work very hard to
develop my
voice Ari Joe Aro Paula a professional
tener in my hometown of Medina Italy
took me as a pupil I also enrolled in a
teacher's college on graduating I asked
my father here's what he said to his dad
shall I be a
teacher or a
singer his father said
Luciana if you try to sit on two
chairs you will fall between
them for
life you must choose one
chair I chose one he said it took seven
years of study and frustration before I
made my first professional
appearance it took another seven years
to reach the Met Metropolitan
Opera and now I think whether it is
laying bricks
are writing a book whatever we choose to
do we should give ourselves to it
commitment that's the
key choose one
chair regarding your faith choose one
chair make a
commitment don't do like these people
these people never get there they're
never the people because they have
limitations and they use them making
excuses every
turn you don't want to be that person
but if you would choose that no matter
what it cost you're going to be a
Christian then you can repent of your
sins today confess Christ Jesus and be
baptized this very day and your world
will change and you truly will be
transformed it's up to you though if you
wish to come come while we stand and
while we
sing
