if you're new to us thank you for coming
our way uh don't necessarily see a new
face sitting out there but thank you for
being here just the same want to talk to
you tonight about uh the first of about
a three-part series Lord willing will'll
do three uh you never know these days I
was planning on a three-part Series this
last month and only did two so you never
know but uh whatever it is uh we're
looking at what we must remember part
one which is we must remember Christ so
we're going to be looking at that
tonight and U hopefully over the next
few weeks we'll see uh the three uh
different things the New Testament
encourages us to remember the first one
is we need to remember Christ the second
thing is we need to remember love
particularly our first love and then we
need to remember Purity and we'll get
into that and there's three different
passages we'll be looking at of the
process of time so hopefully this will
be a a blessing to us um before we get
any further though Let's uh begin with a
word of prayer thank you for showing up
by the way might have been a few more
extra people who came in tonight God
bless you for making an extra effort and
I know it's a holiday still and
everybody's still kind of groggy from
the holidays uh God bless you for being
out pray with
me Holy Father we are grateful that we
can be here together we pray that uh the
benefits of being here always outweigh
whether or not we think we got anything
out of it or not so father even when we
might walk away and say well that didn't
speak to me or that wasn't what I was
looking for that you somehow father
would work in uh the worship work in the
songs work in the prayers work in the
meeting and handshakes and the how are
you doing and all of that that we do in
our fellowship and that you would always
leave a blessing for us father we want
to be like Abraham we want to be blessed
but we want to be a blessing and we pray
father that we will be a blessing and so
as we're gathered together tonight we
pray that we'll be a blessing to each
other and that hand of Fellowship will
be enough to keep us going this week and
now father we pray that you'll help us
to uh understand that we must remember
your son and our Savior Jesus Christ and
we pray father that this lesson will
kind of encourage uh more uh deep
thinking about that subject it's in the
name of Jesus we pray amen now memories
are are are remembered uh things that we
do remember seem to affect us or at
least they should and I think they
change us they affect us sometimes they
can give us Melancholy you ever had that
where you almost can't breathe y'all
know what I'm talking about you know
what Melancholy is some of you looking
me at me kind of funny don't want to
don't want to think about it too much
you might get it so uh it's one of those
kind of things kind of scary once it
starts on you you B can't breathe but U
so memories do a lot to us they affect
us in many ways uh
uh some of the stuff I can't remember
anymore and that doesn't affect me much
but the things that I still can remember
uh can sometimes when you think about it
just a moment can truly affect you
Tennessee Williams said life is all
memory except for the one present moment
Goes On by you so quickly that you
hardly catch it going so he says
basically we see Life as a memory and
that's kind of true isn't it I mean the
present's just moving right and so
really when we talked about the present
we're actually thinking about what
happened just a second ago and it's
moving past us Helen Keller said so long
as the memory of certain beloved friends
live in my heart I shall say that life
is good I like that Martin bucks bom a
businessman he said the reason I have
such a wonderful memory for names is
because I took that Sam Carnegie
course some of y'all get that tomorrow
Bruce Lee Bruce Lee said the key to
immortality this is Bruce Lee famous you
know the key to immortality is first
living a life worth
remembering interesting thought huh he's
almost achieved that I mean will we ever
forget Bruce Lee I don't know uh Steven
Jobs or Steve Jobs said this he said a
lot but he said this uh remembering that
you are going to die he said this at a
College Commencement Address after he
found out he was dying remembering that
you're going to die is the best way I
know to avoid the Trap of thinking you
have something to
lose remembering that I'll be dead soon
is the most important tool I've ever
encountered to help me make the big
choices in life because almost because
almost everything all external
expectations all Pride all fear of
embarrassment or failure these things
just fall away in the face of death
leaving only what is truly
important I thought that was actually
profound George Stan uh who passed away
in 1952 he was a Spanish American
philosopher he said those you probably
remember this by someone else but this
is where the original comes from those
who cannot remember the past are
condemned to repeat
it and then Sarah mcglaughlin great
poet in 1995 she wrote I will remember
you will you remember
me don't let your life pass you by weep
not far the
memories I that's profound actually
Marvin Hames
Marilyn Bergman and Allan Bergman wrote
back way back and then in 1972 it was
sung in a movie the name of the movie
was The Way We Were Barbara ston sang
the song you'll remember some of you old
enough will remember some of these words
memories light the corners of my mind
Misty watercolor memories of The Way We
Were scattered pictures of the smiles we
left behind Smiles we gave to one
another for The Way We Were can it be
that it was all so simple then or is
time Rewritten every line if we had the
chance to do it all again tell me would
we could we memories may be beautiful
and yet what's too painful to remember
we simply choose to forget so it's the
laughter we will remember whenever we
remember The Way We Were The Way We Were
y'all remember that movie sad
movie
memories so there are quite a few
biblical mantras on memories especially
the Old Testament uh several occasions
that this becomes an interesting Mantra
Exodus 13:3 remember this day in which
you went out of Egypt I want you to
remember what it was like to get out of
slavery
Exodus 20 remember the Sabbath day to
keep it holy top 10 commandments Ten
Commandments by the way any of those
violated could lead to your death so and
it did everybody was every one of those
someone was killed for it Exodus 32
remember Abraham Isaac and Israel or
Jacob as we would call it numbers 15
remember all the Commandments of the
lord well that's 613 that's pretty good
job Deuteronomy 8 remember the Lord your
God well how would you forget that
believe it or not you can forget you
have a God you can forget it so much
that you never pray you never think
about it you don't go to church God
leaves your memory and it happens
happens to people all the time believe
it or not one of the mantras of the New
Testament is so powerful because it's
not like any of the others it's not like
the ones in the Old Testament the big
memory verse in the Old Testament was
remember the Sabbath day right that was
the big commandment remember the Sabbath
day keep it holy right but the big memy
verse in the New Testament appears in
the Book of Luke Luke 22:19 and then it
occurs of course in 1 Corinthians 11 we
read a moment ago where it says do this
in remembrance of me that's the most
personal the most poignant the most
personal and life affecting thing to ask
of the followers of Jesus don't forget
me how could we
apparently we
do remember me and do this in
remembrance of me so when the father of
Christ ask us to remember it should
affect us because his holy spirit flat
out ask us in our text and so we want to
analyze that text uh 1 Corinthians 11 so
I encourage you w't turn your Bibles it'
be a good place to go 1 Corinthians 11
we'll start verse 23 we want to talk
about remembering uh Christ and how we
must remember Christ but I want to
remember each of these uh three parts
number one we want to remember Christ's
body and why is that significant and why
are we told to remember his body well he
says for I receiv received from the Lord
that which I also delivered to you that
the Lord Jesus in the night in which he
was betrayed took bread and when he had
given thanks he broke it and said this
is my body which is for you do this in
remembrance of me is did he only do that
because there was bread in the Passover
and he was trying to use something to
make it up or was he trying to make was
there some significant serious
significance to emphasizing his body
what have you ever thought about why he
made a point of emphasizing his body I
mean obviously if you remember him don't
you remember everything about him right
remember his words he didn't say
remember my words he didn't say remember
my heart remember my attitude he said
remember my body which is interesting
and within and of it s and uh this is my
body which is for you uh do this in
remembrance of me so why do we remember
Christ's body so that's an important
thing so I've I've given you a bunch of
scriptures here but we're not going to
go into every single one of them let me
just brush over them because it just
would take way too long why do we
remember Christ's body because he came
in the flesh John 1
verse4 uh the word was made flesh and
dwelt Among Us he became
flesh he's not what the
uh Muslims say about him that he just
appeared in the spirit he's not what the
gnostics said about him that he never
actually physically died he was really
in this body God became a Man In the
Flesh and he and because he was born of
David In the Flesh according to Romans
1:3 so he was literally a baby in this
world God became a baby and became a
descendant of David now think about how
you had to pull that off how do you make
come a descendant but he did and he
because he was manifest In the Flesh 1
Timothy 3:16 he was manifest In the
Flesh what does that mean it wasn't we
we saw him in the flesh right that's the
point we we were able to see him in the
flesh it it wasn't made believe he was
seen that way and because he shared with
us in the flesh Hebrews 2 ver14 he
shared with us in the flesh see if he
had just been a spirit and coming he
wouldn't have known what it's like to be
us but but he shared in our flesh this
stuff he shared in that he had this
stuff that was a part of who he was but
more than that because he shared with us
in the flesh but he was perfected In the
Flesh now that's significant you and I
aren't we're we still have the stain of
of that tree of knowledge of good and e
evil in us but he didn't he didn't have
that stain in him born of a woman not
born of a man he he was able to come
here without that stain right so he
didn't have that stain on him and yet in
the flesh he was perfected In the Flesh
he did everything right he did nothing
wrong and because he suffered In the
Flesh according to 1 Peter 4 ver1 so he
didn't just come as a spirit he his
flesh suffered I want you to remember my
body my suffering right so more than
that because he died in the flesh 1
Peter 3:18 if you begin to listen to all
these scriptures they keep emphasizing
flesh
flesh flesh anybody denies that Jesus
Christ came in the flesh is not a child
of God that's how serious this is it's
not a joke he wasn't being funny about
it wasn't trying to be cute about it he
suffered In the Flesh he died in the
flesh 1 Peter 3:18 he rose again in the
flesh Luke 14:39 said touch me you can
see it and then of course we have Romans
8:23 which says and he intend to redeem
both Body and Soul so he doesn't intend
to just redeem Jesus he intends to
redeem your flesh that's right your
flesh will be made alive again forever
more of course it'll be different
because it lives forever then but it
will be the same flesh that you've got
right now that flesh will be resurrected
you will become one of the redeemed
because he intends to redeem your body
that's what it says I didn't write it
and because he's flesh because he
condemns sin in the flesh Romans 8:3 he
condemned sin the flesh he didn't do it
and yet he made a path for salvation by
being in the flesh and taking our place
so he condemned sin in the flesh and
because he abolished the enmity In the
Flesh Ephesians 2 verse1 15 the division
between the various humans on the planet
so not all flesh looks exactly like some
people claim because of culture race and
all this kind of thing but Ephesians
chapter 2 makes the argument that we've
all become one body in Christ and so
there's no longer this enmity of the
flesh that people want to CLA today not
in Christ we don't have it anymore he
condemned that and he abolished it but
because he consecrated a new way in the
flesh Hebrews 10:20 he's the one that
gave us this new way but he did it
through the flesh so when you think well
he doesn't require us to live that way
that's exactly what he does require he
requires you to live as he lived that's
what he expects out of you and because
he reconciled Us in the flesh Colossians
1:
21-22 he reconciled us when did he make
us right with God God when he was in the
flesh not when he had gone into heaven
he's glorified he did it when he was in
his flesh he made us right with God and
because he made us his body in the flesh
Ephesians 5:30 we are now his body when
we take the Lord's Supper we are
basically identifying with the body we
are the body we're participating in the
body we're eating the body we're the
body and because he rose glorified In
the Flesh and he's coming back 1 John
3:2 so we don't know what he'll be like
well we've never seen him but when we
see him when he comes back we shall be
like him for we shall see him as he is
so we will see him in the flesh you say
well flesh and blood cannot he well
obviously it's not the Flesh and Blood
we've had here but it's still flesh and
blood it's some something like that
something like this because it was this
Flesh and Blood that's been changed so
it's different and yet it's still the
same flesh that we've had here so we
must remember Christ's body because it
meant so much to to us you can't go to
heaven if he didn't die in his
body number
two we are to remember Christ's blood he
makes the point verse 25 still 1
Corinthians 11 in the same way he took
the cup after supper saying this cup is
the New Covenant in my
blood that's really you know I'll tell
you the world we live in today has
gotten so
o that probably had this come along now
it would have been
outlawed New Testament in my blood do
this as often as you drink it in
remembrance of me in fact there was a an
effort about 30 40 years ago I remember
it well when they were trying to outlaw
using the word blood in the Bible there
was an effort to try to get rid of the
use of the the term that it should not
even be in the Bible because it offends
too many people you made it into a
bloody religion it is blood that saves
um so why does he emphasize his blood
again why did need just emphasize what
he taught what he did why does he have
to get into these details about his body
and his blood well this is a critical
too so you need to understand his body
was critical he came in the flesh and
you need to remember that flesh suffered
but more than that why do we remember
Christ's blood because by his blood we
are purchased acts 20: 28 it was the
blood of Christ that purchased your
Redemption and because by his blood we
are redeemed R Revelation 5:9 says he
has redeemed us to God by his blood
that's in handle's Messiah you should
remember that so he redeemed us to God
by his
blood uh we didn't get Redeemed by his
you know his thoughts and his ideas even
though those were critical and because
by his blood we are Justified Romans 5
and verse 9 we're justified by the blood
of Christ not by the ideas of Christ not
by the word of Christ we we are
justified by the blood of Christ and
because by his blood we are also brought
near Ephesians 2: 13 we who were a far
off none of us were Jewish descent I
mean as far as I know might be one or
two in here with a little bit of it and
you rest of us were just of the rest of
the world we were the pagans we descend
from the pagans that's who we are I'm
from the pagans you're from the pagans
that's where we came from so we need to
be brought nigh praise the Lord God has
brought us nigh amen brought us nigh by
the but he did it by the blood of Christ
strangely enough and then because by his
blood we are at peace with God
Colossians 1:20 so when blood is offered
in a covenant situation that's often
when they knew the peace why was that
important you remember when Abraham uh
walked between the parts of the animals
you know that part and people say I
don't know why God did that why does he
do that what's the point of doing the
killing the animal and the blood out and
all like that here's what that means
folks I don't know how how you might
have missed that it means this we're
friends we're in
Covenant if I violate this this is
what's going to happen to me if you
violate this this is what's going to
happen to you that's what that
means this is what you deserve if you
don't keep your part of this Covenant
you deserve to be thrown and quartered
cut apart right that's what it means and
so why do we need to be made peace with
God by the blood because when the
blood's appears what that's saying is
you don't keep your
end
hello you don't keep your end have you
picked up what it means
yet you don't keep the
Covenant have you picked up what it
means
yet it means your
blood that's what that
means understand it it's not a joke it's
serious yeah yeah that's how serious it
is but we have peace with God so when
you have a covenant just nothing like
that to fear cuz you haven't violated it
and so you don't have to fear that so
you're at peace with God and then
because by his blood we are entering the
holiest Hebrews 10 verse 19 it says we
enter the holiest holiest place and
that's that's the Temple of the Lord in
heaven right holiest to holiest we we're
already there we're already seated with
Christ and God who's our life we're
already there when he appears we'll
appear with him in glory because we're
already there we it's that promise it's
that close to being absolutely already
done and so literally we are in the holy
of holies now I know that's little out
there I'll I'll leave that there because
by his blood we are able to overcome
Satan Revelation 12 verse 11 it is by
the blood of Christ that we overcome
Satan so this idea about I'm going to
well I'll never see it again well that's
not going to happen I'm going to I'm
going to do everything right from here
on out that I hope you do really well
but you're still going to fail Satan's
going to whip you here and there right
he's going to whip you he's going to get
the better of you maybe this week maybe
you'll have a really really bad week and
you'll want to give it all in but hang
on hang on because it's not by your
effort that you've been made right and
that you overcome Satan it's by the
blood of Jesus that you're made right
before God because by his blood we are
under the New Covenant and I've given
you a ton of scripture there Hebrews
9:15 through1 18 Hebrews 10:29 we're
under the New Covenant the Everlasting
Covenant literally by the blood of
Christ and because by his blood we are
purified and our sins are remitted
that's the teaching of Hebrews 9 19-22 1
John 1:7 I mean that's how our sins are
forever forgiven we confess our sins
he's faithful and just to forgive us of
our sins and cleanse us from all
unrighteousness it is by his blood
that's made possible and because by his
blood we are propitiated before the
father that is we have been atoned we've
been made right with God Romans 3:25 and
1 John 2:2 like he's done made it
available to the whole world 1 John 4:10
so we must remember Christ's
blood third and last
thing we are to remember Christ
especially in the Lord's Supper because
we're remember we're supposed to
remember what Christ is
bringing
uh it says in verse 26 for as often as
you eat this bread and drink the cup you
proclaim the Lord's death until he comes
so what are what is he bringing that we
need to remember well it's critical
because it is the motivation for the
reason that you're taking it really it
is the motivation because he is
bringing the
Angels when he comes all his holy angels
will come with them we're told they come
in flaming fire but they'll gather all
over the world he gathers us I've never
seen an angel that I knew something may
be my
wife she didn't even look
see but I mean seriously never seen
one
um but I I'm a little nervous about see
in the first one a little less about
seeing a A Sky
Full A Sky Full of angels
uh Matthew 1339 414 49 Matthew 16:27 he
and his he'll appear with his angels
Matthew 24:31 when he comes to judge
Matthew
25:31 he'll come with his angels 2
Thessalonians
1:7 anyway so because he's bringing the
Angels what a sight that will be and so
that's one of the things we look for
when we uh we've always heard the
Eastern sky is split
apart we'll see the Angels we'll see the
Lord and we'll see the
Angels because when he's coming he's
bringing the Saints he isn't just just
coming with the angels he's bringing all
those people that we've loved all the
way
back to where Adam and
Eve Adam and
Eve and their family
Noah
Moses AB Abraham Isaac
Jacob everybody bringing them all
they're all still alive you know he's
bringing them all with him they are
called the Saints 1 Thessalonians 3:13
we won't we won't precede them they're
already with him okay they just Haven an
experiened as far as we understand it
the resurrected State as we're looking
forward to but that's coming for us all
he bring those with him and we will see
the Saints that's I don't know about you
I think that might be almost the St uh
show stealer that day I mean I know that
when we see the lord it's all going to
be about that we're going to be oh you
know it's all it's going to be the show
stealer we're going to see the Angels oh
you know
and but when we see our departed loved
ones I don't know it's going to hit a
place is
different that's that's going to be a
different
place and
suddenly
oh there they
are because he's not just bringing the
angels and bringing the Saints but he's
bringing the reward with him Revelation
22:12 his reward is with him 1 Peter 2
Verse 18 he's bringing his reward with
him I don't know what that is somebody
tells you oh know what the reward is
going to be I I
know I don't know it's just I'm
thinking uh Eternal life's pretty big
but peanut butter and jelly sandwich
should probably do me for a day or two
but I'm just saying I don't know what
the reward is that he's
bringing but it sounds pretty awesome to
think that he would pick you
out and say I got something for you now
you know Christmas we just got through
it right
does it make you feel special when
somebody has something that they picked
out for
you and they give it to
you imagine if it's something I've been
cooking this since you were
seven I knew this day was
coming because he's bringing not only
the reward he's bringing the light
that's what it says 1 Corinthians 4
verse5 the light will appear he'll bring
the light what does that mean I
only thing I can tell you that I think
it is is a greater knowledge of Greater
ways a greater knowledge of Greater ways
because his ways are not our ways and
our thoughts are not his
thoughts maybe finally we'll kind of
grasp some of his ways and some of his
thoughts better than here maybe we will
actually see the light finally yeah I
don't know if you know this but it's
real easy to deceive you and
me we we buy in we start thinking our
side whoever we're voting for has got
the
answers okay Until you realize they lie
just as much as the other
one right and then you're
like I thought they were good
people okay so we don't know really
good we think we know good we don't know
good we don't know
Mercy we we don't know love we barely
know love the only reason we know love
has been demonstrated for us otherwise
we would know love so so many of the
things that we think we know we don't
really
know we we have a concept of and he's
going to bring the
light I don't know that sounds really
cool to me because he's bringing also
the kingdom Matthew 610 we pray for it
thy kingdom come he's bringing the
kingdom there's so many scriptures on
the kingdom coming so I won't go into
that so we must remember what Christ is
bringing so when you're taking the
Lord's Supper next
time excuse me then try to do this try
to remember his body and how essential
his flesh suffering was for your
salvation that your body could be raised
from the
dead try to remember his blood and how
that is a covenant relationship you now
have with God that you're promised a
blessing and a reward as long as you
stay in Covenant with him and then try
to remember what he's bringing into this
world and what's going to be so
wonderful about his coming I wonder so
this I'm I'm about to draw this to a
close I wonder how Jesus feels on
Sundays every wondered about that what
about how Jesus feels on Sunday let's
just say that Jesus is looking down on
us let's say in the in the morning
service when he's forgotten
and people are sitting at home and not
taking
communion and they're so-called faithful
members but they just decided not to go
not because they were
sick just decided not to go I wonder
what that feels
like how how would you feel if it was
your
birthday and everybody just forgot it
didn't even ever say oh happy birthday
nothing nothing I I mean
nothing didn't come didn't show
nothing is that
okay in 1884 a young man
died and after the funeral his grieving
parents decided they wanted to try to
establish a memorial to
him so they made an appointment and they
met with Charles Elliott Charles Elliott
happened to be the president of Harvard
University at the
time and uh Elliot received him into his
office office and they they were just
casually dressed people I mean
unpretentious people and he asked well
what can I do for you today um and they
expressed their desire to fund a
memorial and Charles Elliott was a
little impatient and said well perhaps
what you really have in mind is a
scholarship when they said well we were
thinking of something a little more
substantial than that perhaps a
building and then that's what the the
mom said because they they were still
grieving over their son who is
dead so Charles Elliott in a patronizing
tone brushed them
aside and said well that's just too
expensive to think about
that the next year just one year
later Charles Elliott
learned that this plain drably dressed
couple who come come in in such pain and
grief about their child had gone
elsewhere and they established a 26
million Memorial named Leland Stanford
Jr
University better known as Stanford
today that was a pretty good conclusion
to that um so
fundamentally fundamentally maybe we
need to realize
that
memorials are one of the most important
things to people who are sincere about
it and people who aren't all that
sincere about it can mock
it I wonder how Jesus feels on Sunday
evenings okay let's get away from Sunday
mornings let's let's ask in our head
what Jesus feels on Sunday evenings when
he's forgotten because they just decided
not to come
I wonder what he
feels wonder what's going on in his head
one Sunday morning the preacher noticed
little Alex standing in the
forer and he's just staring up at the
wall in the forer so the preacher went
back to see what he's doing and when he
got back there little Alex just standing
looking up and he's looking at like a
plaque thing on the wall that had flags
all down the side and it was 7-year-old
little Alex and he stared there for a
minute the preacher stood silently next
to him finally he said good morning Alex
he said good morning Preacher and then
he said what is this what is this thing
on the
wall he said well son that's a memorial
to all the young men and women who died
in the
service and the little boy was sober and
he
just he stood there together staring at
the large plaque finally little Alex's
voice barely could speak you could tell
he was scared he's
trembling he's scared to death and he
said uh
preacher which service did they die in
the morning or the evening
service that's twice next time we going
knock the ball out of the park so of
course it had to be the morning service
why is that because there not enough
attend the evening service to Warrant a
plague a plaque on the wall CU you
couldn't have a plaque on the wall not
enough people attend look at this that's
not enough for a
plaque here's a question I'd like to ask
morning service
people if you sting it home did you even
think about coming
tonight did you forget about Sunday
nights are you certain you don't need it
second Peter 1:9 some are shortsighted
even to blindness and have forgotten
that he was cleansed from his own old
sins if folks needed a second service
about 100 to 150 years ago when this
really got
started how much more do you think they
needed in this society that we live in
today if I was a wagering man and I'm
not but if I was a betting man well
anybody want to a bet with this we'll
figure it out I mean I don't know how
we'd make the payment since what I'm
fixing to say neither side could pay but
you know put $20 down on it and if I was
a wagering man I would bet that the Lord
Jesus comes back on Sunday
night in the middle of church
time of course if I lose I don't have to
pay
and ask your brothers and sisters
seriously I I think you know we could do
series of preaching on coming Sunday
night and it seems self-serving when
when I preach stuff like that it always
felt a
little like you just well people look at
you like it is self-
serving but if you ask the people you
sit next to on Sunday morning next
Sunday morning hey how about coming back
tonight it'll mean more than anything I
could ever preach or ever
do let's hope not remembering Jesus and
disrespecting him and not remembering
his body properly not remembering his
blood properly and not remembering what
he's bringing back with him properly
doesn't get anybody in Eternal trouble
let's
hope let's pray that that's true but in
the meantime let's work like it is going
to get them in trouble and invite them
to come with us next time amen try to
think about that this week invite
somebody hey how about coming tonight
with us you going ask them out and
afterwards I'll take you out and get an
ice cream conb or you can buy me one one
or the other you know that' be great if
you're here tonight and you haven't
given your life to the Lord we always
want to give that as an opportunity for
you to be right with the Lord whatever
just to rededicate prayers we stand
ready if you need to come come while we
stand and while we
sing
