this
morning uh let's open up with a prayer
if you
will Holy Father who are in heaven we
are thankful for this one another day
you've given us father we thank you for
the privilege that you've granted each
of us to be a part of your day to
breathe your air to enjoy your beauty
and to enjoy each other we pray that as
we go into this period of study you will
go with us go with our hearts and our
minds and may we uh put forth the
necessary efforts to learn what you
would have us to know as children or
members of your family be with us all is
in Jesus name we ask this in all
blessings
amen now I need to ask something of this
class and I got a reason for asking this
if you intend to be members of this
class and your purpose for coming here
is to learn I'm going ask you to do
something and do it for me if you don't
want to do it you don't have to but I'm
going encourage you to do it it's for
the benefit of not only me but for
everybody that's attending if you will
now I'm I'm going to give you a reason
why I'm asking you to do this after you
do it if you would come forward and
let's occupy these seats here and these
seats up here I got a reason for that
and if you would do that it would help
not only me but it would help the entire
class
Robert would you hear me I don't I think
we got I got 40 of them in there I hope
we got 40 people
now the reason I ask you to come forward
is because see this class going to
involve you this is not just for me I'm
not up here to just to hear myself talk
I'm up here to Hope and to help if I can
for you to understand what it is the
Bible teaches about certain subjects and
sometime you're going to have questions
and those questions want I I I remember
sitting in class in here people sitting
way over there and some sitting way over
there and they ask a question or make a
statement and I couldn't hear word they
were saying that's not fair to me or the
teacher has a microphone and many times
the teacher would repeat what they were
saying but I want us to be a family in
this class I want us to be together I
want us to put forth an effort to try to
follow the curriculum because the C
curriculum is designed to help you
search for truth in the in the word of
God so as we make preparations to do
that there are certain there going to be
certain requirements of you
I'm I'm going need some I'm going need
some help as I said if you are a Bible
reader and you do not mind reading if I
ask you to find a passage of scripture
if you would find that passage of
scripture and and read out fluently and
clearly so everyone can hear you because
there might be someone trying to hear
what you're saying and the point will be
centered around the scripture that I ask
you to read and we're going to have
quite a bit of scriptures that we're
going to read in this class so I'm going
ask you to get involved in the class so
that you can learn from what is being
taught now it's not it's it's for your
benefit because God expects his children
to know what his word teaches and I know
brother Rex does an excellent job of
present God's word but brother Rex
cannot go with you every minute or the
hour when you meet people that do not
know what God's word is you would have
that
opportunity to uh help those people come
to God so this what this class is
designed to do uh so as having said
that I'm I'm going need I'm going need
some help if you're a Bible reader and I
ask you to find a scripture I would
appreciate if you do because I need your
help but I don't want to be fumbling
around here looking for scriptures and I
got all you guys out here that can help
me with that so good
morning for the sake of all who do not
know my name is Willie Smith
I personally welcome you to this
class uh the title is searching for
truth and I hope that's why you're here
Jesus said and Jesus made the statement
in John 17:17 sanctify them through thy
truth Thy word is trueu so if we go that
that what when what he's saying is set
my people apart from the world but you
allow truth to do that so we're
searching for the truth that he's
referring to I will search for be of God
will be in God's word we'll examine the
facts and then fact check those facts to
make sure we're all on the same track
and we all understand what the word is
teaching about uh the objective of the
class is to prepare the
student to
intelligently
discuss uh the discuss with his uh with
other others what the Bible teaches
about God's Authority about the
church about uh the the the the the the
family of God and about baptism we need
to know what the Bible teaches and we
need to know how to go to the Bible and
and and get that information because we
meet people all the time and many of
those people that we come in contact
with in a state of
loss
uh the per the the the state study of
this these courses is to sanctify the
Lord in your heart and to be ready to
always give an answer to every man that
asks you of a reason of the hope that is
in you with meekness and fear that's
first Peter
3:15 that text is
found as in any class you will get out
of the class what you put into the
class um
the tools we will be that we that you
would need in this class
are you would need a document of Truth
you will need this now I I realize that
many of us have these little computers
and they're good I have one help me find
stuff real quick but it's also good for
you to be familiar with your
Bible so you need a document of Truth
you need a you need an instrument to
write with pen or pencil you would need
a notepad because she going we going to
I'm going to give you a lot of
information that I'm not going
to define or exet for you you can take
the notes to go home and study them for
yourself if your interest is there if
you have that type of interest and I
wish I really hope that you do you can
study that information that I'm I'm I'm
going give you uh I encourage you to
prepare to be ready to take copious
notes because I'm going to give you
quite a bit of scripture and these
scriptures going to refer to a lot of
the topics we're going to discuss here
but you're going to have to go home and
study them for yourself like brother re
said from the ppit this morning you got
to learn how to open your Bible you got
to learn how to read your Bible get on
the practice of daily reading your Bible
every day I encourage that because I do
that and I've been doing it for several
years and it haven't hurt me it matter
of fact it have helped me uh the design
of the course of the class class is to
encourage a student to uh recognize the
distinction between Eternal damnation
and eternal salvation see there's only
that's the only Direction you can go in
you either going in the direction of God
God are you not if you're not going
toward God you're going away from God
well in in
uh Matthew 7:13 he says enter you in at
the Straight Gate for wide is the gate
and Broad is the way that leadth to
destruction and many of there be that go
in there at because straight now that's
s that's not s t r a i g h t that's s r
a t e straight is the gate and narrow is
the way that enter into life and few
there be to find it now the pro problem
with not being able to find that narrow
gate is because many of us do not search
we depend on the preacher to get us to
heaven but he can't do that you're going
to have to do that you're going to have
to put forth the necessary effort to to
save your soul recognize the value of
your soul recognize what God did to help
you with your soul if you want to
understand his love read the latter part
A latter portion of uh chapter of of of
1 John chapter 4 that Lou in it talks
about the love of God and what he did
for your soul so if you want to if if
you want to do
that uh you learn how to use God's word
to guide you through this life uh Thy
word is a lamp unto my feet and a light
unto my path Psalm
119 uh verse
105 so we have to do these things
all if all of us would learn how to
allow the word of God to direct our
decisions in life allow the word of God
to direct the things that we do in
association with other people we would
we will live a better life and we will
understand a little bit more about God
now as a child of God God expects you to
be able to do that he expects you to be
able to understand what that Bible
teaches about the salvation of your soul
he expects you to do that now the
foundation of the text we will be we are
using is First
Peter 1 and
2 I you got a handout now that handout
you have it introduces you to who Peter
was and what and the message that Peter
wrote I also have an outline
there first Peter is outlined so if you
want to know what subjects you would
like to this this study you can do that
by simply going to that outline and
looking at that subject matter go into
those verses get you a good uh
Bible dictionary or
concordance and and study it because
it's very good information you'll be
surprised at what Peter is telling
those people he's writing to we're going
to discuss that next week the exact
exactly what he is saying we going to
exed some of those passages some of
those uh and we're going to look into
them but this week is basically an
introdu
to what we're going to do in this class
and I hope that you have you preparing
yourself to study because I'm going ask
you to study I'm going ask you to take
some time at at home in stud of so I'm
not going to test you on it I'm not
going to I'm not going to call it to I'm
not going to call you before the class
and see if you study it's up to you but
I'm going ask you to do it I'm going ask
you to take time out of your busy day
God give you 24 hours every day he give
me 24 and I'm sure he don't cheat you he
give you the same amount he gives me if
I managed to live through that day so
it's up to me to take some time one hour
out of those
24 and and focus in on his love and His
blessings anybody can do that all of us
can do that but if you will do it you'll
be surprised at how well you would come
to know who God is
now we will be discussing in this class
five major
topics I'm going introduce you to what
we're going to be studying later on in
this class in just a little bit but
we're going to be discussing five major
topics the first topic is the first
study of interest is is about the
Creator very we know very little about
our
creator how can we know our creator we
need to know some something about the
the creator that created us we're going
to study about the authority of the
Creator and we're going to St about the
church what it
means and your involvement with the
church and what is the church we're
going to study all that information
we're going to study about the house of
God and I love the way brother John
Moore uses the the uh the implication in
relation to a contract to building his
house here on Earth a home for him and
his family like God did he built a
spiritual home for his family but he
used a good
uh implication there uh an analogy there
to Define
how you would feel if you built a house
and you let some of your friends come in
or some of your family members come into
that house and you go away for a while
and you come back they don't redesign
your house tow down walls put in new
walls put doors where you didn't want
them they went against your plan you
didn't give them permission to do that
so he going to use that analogy to
define the house are the family of God
of God we also going to discuss baptism
now our information is going to be taken
from the world video Bible
school they didn't want to produce this
this this the uh the the scripts that
we're going to use to study
from Brother John MO is the instructor
he's a very intelligent very wonderful
man he was one of my instructors he's
very knowledgeable in the Bible he's
going to be the narrow in our in our
walk through on these subjects that
we're going to discuss but
now having said all that I hope that
some of it sinks in and that you will be
a participant of this class
and make plans make set an hour a day
aside to make plans to
study God's word and now I gave you I
gave you some information here what you
need to study first thing we need to do
is study
uh first and second Peter we need to
learn
that because Peter Peter is writing to
Christians these Christians are
scattered
throughout that that that that that
country throughout the world they all
over the world they've been taking them
from their homes they've uh Paul went in
several different places and established
congregation and preached and taught uh
the church what they need to do or what
how they need to worship God now you got
to remember that most of the people that
he that were converted to
Christianity a lot of them came out of
Judaism and now if you understand what
Judaism is you understand how what the
struggle was for them they for 1500
years they have been worshiping God
according to a law a cornal law a
constitution that were governing their
country and it's important to understand
that they wern't willing to change that
easily but Peter's message to those
once uh Jews now converted to
Christianity was sent to them and that's
what we that's what the breakdown of
first and second Peter is he was during
a time when pers when the Christians
were being persecuted Christians being
persecuted by the Roman
government and it was not easy to be a
Christian during those days well it's
not easy to we a Christian today because
we complicate it it's easy to to save
your souls because God have made it easy
but we complicate the issue because of
the religious world around us it it is
constantly confusing us about what is
right and what is not right but as you
look at your handout you're noticing
things about uh the Apostle
Peter
uh let's see here what we got here well
first of all
the the first the first verse of 1 Peter
one affirms that he was the author of
the book Peter wrote the book we know
that his occupation was of that of a
fisherman uh fishermen
were needed people during that days even
fishermen today can make a good living
if they know how to catch fish and they
know how to Market those fish so he was
uh in a
business his father's name was Jonah you
can find that you can proof check that I
got your proof check scripture there in
Matthew 16:17 now I don't want you to
think that the Jonah who was his father
the same Jonah of the Book of Jonah two
different people now but they the many
of them have many of those people had
the same names two different people
that's not that's not the Jonah that I'm
referring to because if you want to if
you want to know for a fact how why is
that the time difference between Jonah
of the uh the prophet and this Jonah who
was his father too many years he
couldn't be that
old
uh his home was in cinium you can check
that you can you can proof check that
Mark 1:21 and verse
29 much of Peter's life was spent on the
Sea of
Galilee with his brother Andrew now he
was in business with uh two of his
cousins uh uh they were in business
together
um John James and John they were cousins
of his matter of fact if you if you do
some research you'll find that most of
those apostles were
related and most of them was related to
Jesus also in the in the flesh except
uh uh the betrayer he was from another
era he was not related to
them he was an elder in the church in
the Lord's
Church which means he had to have
children and a
wife now all this is in text you can you
can research it for yourself you don't
have to trust me I want you to research
it that's why I give you the information
so you can go and research it for
yourself he W he he he was part of the
Inner Circle en
Clos association with
Jesus uh when Jesus went off when he
went on
uh amount of
transfiguration he took Peter James and
and uh and John with him they were close
to him John was probably more closer to
him than the rest of them
was
um the last mention of Peter as as as
recorded in in the text the last mention
of him in the new test it is in Acts
15 he is last referred to in Galatians 2
outside of the books that represent his
name that he has his name on
um he was uh he was Apostle of Christ
now this word Apostles many time we as
people get this word Apostle mixed up
with Disciple we are Disciples of Christ
because we are students of his teachings
an apostle is someone that
actually uh was with
Jesus and Jesus sent them into the world
you remember when Jesus was resurrected
from the dead by the power of God Jesus
went and met with these men and he he
gave them a mission that mission was go
ye into all the world and preach the
gospel to Every Creature he that
believes and is
baptized shall be saved he that
believeth not
shall be damned so what that tells you
two types of people in the world those
who belong to God and obedience to Jesus
Christ and those who are members of the
world who have not submitted obedience
to the plan of Jesus Christ so there's
only two types of people in the world
either you're a child of God now this is
a little harsh but I'm going to say it
anyway either you a child of the god or
you are a child of the devil now you
might ask yourself how did we get
ourselves in this predicament what
happened to cause us to be separated
from God well that's a study within
itself but let me give you a brief
synopsis of what how that happened when
God created the man he formed a man from
the dust of the earth and I'm going to
go in a little in a little little more
in depth on this idea later on in our
study but he formed a man from the dust
of the Earth the man was
Earthly that chair
this paper all of it come from the Earth
Somebody formed it from products of the
earth that's what the man was just like
every other creature on this Earth they
were formed from products of the Earth
but see then something happened to that
man God breathed into his nostril the
breath of life and this man became a
living Soul now he's a spirit being
after he became a spirit being God gave
him commandment and that commandment was
to determine whether he would submit
Obed ience to God or well he follow his
own mind now that he can make his own
decision he don't have to follow God he
can go go off on his own and man chose
to do that so he going to live in his
own body we have the same Choice many of
us would say boy if I had a chance like
Adam I would obey God no you wouldn't
because you haven't obeyed him yet you
had the same Choice he had you either
obey God or you
don't if you have not submitted
obedience to his call come unto me all
you that lab in heav lay and I give you
rest
take my yoke upon you and learn of
me and I will give you rest for your
soul that's promise from God you have to
do that I can't do it for
you Rex can't do it none of these Elders
can do it but they can only give you
people that will help you in
understanding what it is you need to do
in order to get your soul right with God
because one day you're going to leave
this world you're going to depart from
this world and when that happen happen
you need to be prepared to go into
another world now let's think about this
for a little bit I'm going to give you
some passages of scripture so you can
research this on your own I'm going just
tell you
now what do you mean preacher when you
what do you mean teacher when you
say uh when when you when you part when
God told a man saying in the day you
disobey me thou shallal surely die now
what that means you need to go back and
research that word die that word die
kind of throw us off track a little a
bit we think that means the body cease
to
function and what that word meant when
God said it means you going to be
separated for me the day you disobey me
you no longer going to be United to me
well how am I United to you when God
breathed into his nostril the breath of
life he became a living Soul now if you
know what John 4:24
says it says God is a
spirit okay if he's a
spirit my cornal body is not a spirit
but there's something inside this carnal
body that is a spirit that Spirit didn't
come from this Earth this carnal body
did but when he breathed into his
nostrils he became a living Soul see God
breathed into that book that book that
I'm telling you need a book that Bible
that document of truth that is God's
word he breathed into that and it became
a living word that's why man can't get
rid of it he been trying to get rid of
it ever since God put it here he can't
get rid of it he been wan to get rid of
it he been try everything he can do to
get rid of the Bible he don't want you
to know about God but you must put forth
an effort to learn who God is because
your soul depends on it you only got one
Soul you got a soul to save or soul to
lose you do that you can't blame anybody
for it if it happens that you lose your
soul it's your fault God have given you
everything you need to save your soul
you got to put forth that effort now
I got to keep up with
time I'm I get to talking sometime I
forget what time it
is
okay all
right what time we pull a break what how
long we uh
uh 11:15 by 1115 we got about 15
minutes
T I'll finish this talk with you next
time I got a I got a I got an
introduction to searching for truth I
want you to look at and then after that
you you'll be you'll be dismissed but
pay pay attention to this
cliar
Amazing
Grace how
sweet the
sound that
sa our
R like me
I
once was
lost but
now
was but
now I
see was
gra that
on my
heart to
fear and
Grace my
Fe how
preious th Grace
the
are high
first through
many some would consider this to be the
end of life but it isn't my name is John
and I would like to invite you to join
with me as we examine the questions of
life and
death did you know that on the average
107 people die every minute and end up
in a place like this that's
153,000 people per day that's a
staggering number and it's hard to
believe that many people are dying every
day but it happens death comes to the
very old and to the very young and to
everyone in between and as much as we
might like to go on living all of us
will face
death but what happens to us when we die
does life after death exist and if so
what kind of life does heaven exist does
Hell exist and what will happen to you
when you die and more importantly
will it matter what you have believed
and how you have lived in this life and
will the answer to those questions
affect your Eternal
Destiny you know most people believe
that the majority of those who die will
end up going to heaven but listen to
what Jesus says enter by the narrow gate
for wide is the gate and Broad is the
way that leads to destruction and there
are many who go in by it because narrow
is the gate and difficult is the way
which leads to life and there are few
who find it did you hear what Jesus said
there he said there are few that find
life and many that go into the path of
Destruction now are you a part of the
few or are you a part of the
many and are you certain about your
Eternal Destiny you know what is even
more sobering is what Jesus said about
those who do believe in him as their
person personal
savior not everyone who says to me Lord
Lord shall enter the kingdom of heaven
but he who does the will of my Father in
Heaven many will say to me in that day
Lord Lord have we not prophesied in your
name cast out demons in your name and
done many wonders in your name and then
I will declare to them I never knew you
depart from me you who practice
lawlessness now according to what Jesus
said Many religious people will not
enter into heaven merely calling upon
the name of Jesus is clearly not enough
to prepare a soul to enter into heaven
according to verse 21 Jesus said that we
must do the will of the father in order
to go to heaven now let me ask you a
question have you done the will of the
father if you were to die today and
stand before Jesus what would he say to
you would he say depart from me for I
never knew you or would he welcome you
into
heaven are you absolutely certain about
what he would say to
you do you ever wonder whether or not
you're saved do you have doubts fears do
you have
questions well if you've ever had a
question about life after death and
whether or not you're truly saved you've
probably wondered about your purpose in
life you may have asked the question why
am I here here and does God have a
purpose for me since time began human
beings have been asking those questions
the philosopher the Theologian the
chemist mothers and dads Carpenters
attorneys they've all asked those
questions now many of these people have
been given all kinds of answers to these
questions and some of those answers even
contradict each other that can be very
distressing and very confusing
especially when we consider that there
are so many different answers to those
questions so what are the true answers
to those questions and which belief
system is correct and does it make a
difference about what you believe and
how you live here upon this Earth
wouldn't you like to be absolutely
certain about that wouldn't you like to
know the
truth friend I want you to know that you
don't have to go through life wondering
the greatest man that ever walked the
face of the Earth brought us answers to
those questions answers that can set us
free answers that can set us free from
our doubts answers that can set us free
from our fears and from our worries and
answers that can set us free as to
whether or not we are
saved those answers are to be found in
the word of God and in that great book
Jesus tells us about truth and how truth
can set us free listen to the words of
Jesus if you abide in my word you are my
disciples indeed and you shall know the
truth and the truth shall make you free
indeed those are powerful words and as
we contemplate the meaning of that
passage let's consider three things
about truth number one let's notice that
Jesus implies In this passage that we
can know truth that is to say truth
exists it's real it's tangible it's not
just whatever you believe it to be or
what someone else believes it to be but
truth is real there is an objective
standard for determining what is right
and what is wrong what is good and what
is evil you don't have to wonder about
whether or not I'm telling you the truth
or anyone else truth certainly exist and
we can know what we need to do in order
to go to heaven now number two not only
can we know truth but truth can set us
free it can set us free from being a
slave to Sin from being in bondage to
sin Jesus said whosoever commits sin is
a slave to sin now let me ask you
something do you struggle with sin is it
a heavy burden for you have you become a
slave to money to alcohol or other forms
of drugs are you a slave to
pornography what about your relationship
with your
spouse are you having difficulty in that
relation ship are you failing in your
responsibilities as a
parent are you burdened with things like
resentment jealousy
hatred do you have problems with racial
Prejudice those things can weigh heavy
on us they can be indeed a great burden
to us and yet I want you to know there's
hope indeed truth can set us free from
those restraints not only can truth set
us free from unrighteous Behavior but it
also can set us free from false
religious practices and the traditions
of
men like some in the first century who
were burdened by the false religious
practices of the Pharisees mentioned in
Mark chapter 7 and in Matthew chapter 23
there are many people today who are
burdened with various rights and
ceremonies and religious practices that
are nowhere mentioned in the bible nor
authorized by God
those man-made traditions and ordinances
can often become very weary and
burdensome and more importantly they can
cause our worship to become vain in
Matthew 15:9 Jesus and speaking about
the Pharisees Traditions that were not
mentioned in the bible he said in vain
do you worship me teaching for Doctrine
the Commandments of men now what about
you are you in bondage to the religious
traditions and to the ordinances of men
have you been Shackled by the teachings
and the Commandments of men are you
being asked to do things that God has
never asked you to do if so I want you
to know there is hope because truth can
set us free from this kind of bondage
and this kind of
restraint with a knowledge of Truth we
don't have to live in uncertainty or
fear and whether it comes in the form of
obvious sinful behaviors or false
religious practices
sin truly captivates it
enslaves and yet Jesus and his word can
set us
free Satan the father of all lies and
evil practices doesn't have to be our
Master with truth on our side Jesus The
Sovereign ruler of the universe he can
be our master and our
Lord now not only can we know truth and
not only does truth set us free but
number three we need to know that truth
is to be found in Jesus while here upon
the Earth Jesus said that he and he
alone is
truth I am the way the truth and the
life no one comes to the father except
through
me so if we're searching for truth and
Jesus is the truth then we should go to
Jesus to find that truth the Bible
clearly teaches that truth is to be
found in the person and in the word of
Jesus listen again to what Jesus says
about truth if you abide in my word you
are my disciples indeed and you shall
know the truth and the truth shall make
you
free so you see it is the words of Jesus
that can set us free those words are a
precious commodity and as in the words
of an Old Testament writer we should buy
the truth and sell it not the truth as
revealed in the Bible is so vitally
important by reading 1 Peter chap 1 and
verse 22 we learn that truth can purify
our souls by reading 2 Thessalonians
1:7-9 we learn that we must obey truth
if we're going to avoid Eternal
punishment you know life is so uncertain
the bodies of the very old and the very
young and all ages in between are in
this
Cemetery some of those individuals died
unexpectedly and without warning I
wonder how many of them died not knowing
the
truth none of us have the promise of
even another second here upon this Earth
while some may live to be 70 80 90 or
even a hundred years old one thing is
for certain as long as this Earth still
stands people are going to
die but what takes place then according
to the Bible we're going to to be judged
by what we have done here upon this
Earth in Romans chap 2 and verse 2 and
also in verse number 16 the Apostle Paul
said that we're going to be judged
according to the gospel in other words
according to truth that's right we're
going to be judged according to
truth now you might be thinking well I'm
already saved and I'm very sincere about
what I believe and my feelings are
telling me that I've already discovered
the truth well friends I hope that
that's the case I hope you have
discovered the truth but you know
sincerity is not enough to save you
before obeying the truth the Apostle
Paul himself was a very religious
individual and very sincere about his
beliefs and yet he came to realize that
he had been the chief of sinners in Acts
chapter 22 we read about the Apostle
Paul revealing that he had been zealous
toward God even though he had been
killing Christians Paul was sincere but
he was sincerely
wrong now what about you perhaps you
have a great deal of zeal but you've
never really searched the scriptures to
see whether or not the things that you
believe are consistent with what the
Bible teaches do you really know the
truth and are you absolutely certain
about it why don't you join me on this
journey as we search for truth and the
truth shall
free God
word let's just miss we will next week
we will look at a clip on about God but
in the meantime during the week I want
you to study the hand out and I want you
to look on the back where that uh those
books are outlined find a subject that
is interesting to you and uh see what
you can make of that uh of those
passages of scripture and see how it app
appes to our study next week about god
let's pray holy and righteous and loving
God who are in heaven we thank you for
this another day father we thank you for
each other we thank you for this
congregation or Believers that gather
here at this place father our prayer is
that you will touch each of our hearts
and give us the will and the desire to
learn more about you and to pay close
attention to our souls in the direction
that we are leading them in Father we
thank you for the leadership and we pray
for this leadership father be with us
all as we make preparations to depart
this place go with us keep us safe and
bring us back at the next appointed time
if it Be Your Will it's in Jesus name we
say thank you amen amen
