you know Fathers and Sons kind of have a
healthy tension at times I heard about
uh tomato family going into town There's
a father tomato a a a wife tomato and
then a mommy tomato and then the little
son the the baby tomato and they're
going into town one Saturday for
breakfast and on the way into town uh
the sun tomato kept dragging behind I
mean he just W was way behind finally
the father tomato got tired of it and he
walked back there where the son tomato
was and he just jumped on top of him and
smushed him into the ground he smushed
him so much that there was nothing left
but paste and he looked down at him and
he said catch up son
uh there's always a little tension
between Father and
Son father said to his son son in 6
months I want you to get a
job I want you to go to church every
Sunday I want you to cut your hair and
if you get a
job get straight A at school go to
church every Sunday and cut your hair 6
months you're 16 now I will buy you a
car 6 months passed the dad comes to the
son he says son you got a
job you're making straight A you've been
going to church every Sunday but you
agreed to cut your hair so you didn't do
that so I'm not buying you a car now the
son saidwell
dad like you said I got a job I'm making
straight A and I've been going to church
every Sunday and going to church every
Sunday I noticed the pictures of Jesus
at church and he had long hair why can't
I have long hair he said well son that's
true he had long hair but he also walked
everywhere he
went there's always a little bit of a
tension between Fathers and Sons we love
each other but there's a little tension
there the prophet prophesied that we
that is you and I so we are fulfilling
the prophecy that was made by Isaiah uh
almost 2200 years well 2800 years ago so
literally a long long time ago Isaiah
said we would call him wonderful
counselor Mighty God Prince of Peace but
we would call him Everlasting father
how's that appropriate the Lord Jesus
Christ is
complex and you can't just look at Jesus
and get him in a glance I've had people
say to me you you're too complicated in
your preaching we need to keep think no
I've had that quite a lot and I see you
saying that but I've had that a lot I've
had that a lot just too many verses too
complicated just keep it simple and
preach to us Jesus you have no idea what
you're asking
for uh Jesus is anything but
simple is anything but simple and you
think if you think you you haven't
looked at him very closely if you think
this is a simple subject uh Jesus in
this text is not called father as being
the father God no that's not who he is
that's not true Jesus is the son in this
text he would be called Everlasting
father but the son is not the father
neither is the father the son I'm this
just a little theology here right John
14 though they are so one that if you
saw one you saw the other and and you've
probably experienced that in life you
probably saw a father and a son you said
well he looks just like he act just like
they're just like one person you've
probably seen that father and son that's
the idea of this so our text is not
about the positions and the titles
within the godhead which is a
complicated discussion which by the way
I fully understand and don't understand
at all so if you if you get what I'm
saying you can get it and not get it
simultaneously because it's just a lot
deeper than you think so in this text
Christ is the son that would be given to
us but he would be called Everlasting
father see the word which is what Christ
was before he was his son
was in his son before he was born so he
was the word John 1: 1 through3 and the
Word was God but then the word was made
flesh the word was born in John 1 and
verse4 and he's like MDC the high priest
of the Old Testament that had neither
beginning of days nor end of life
whatever that means about MDC I don't
know but it it seems to uh Shadow Christ
himself because before John the baptizer
was born Jesus was according to John
chapter 1 and before Abraham was born
according to John chapter 8 Jesus was or
he said I am so when we go talking about
this we need to understand that
Jesus was born but the word is
Everlasting and from Everlasting to
Everlasting
before he was born he was that word and
he has to be considered Eternal from
that perspective and
everlasting and that has to be true
otherwise Jesus could not be a part of
the Eternal or Everlasting plan of God
to save us plan before the foundation of
the
world so for ever more he will be alive
and if he's not alive forever more he
cannot be our
savior he will always be Hebrews 13
makes that very clear and then in
Hebrews chapter 7 he will ever live to
make intercession for us and he's able
to save us to the absolute uttermost now
I've said a bunch of stuff there and
quite honestly you heard me you
understood everything I said and you and
I neither one understand what I just
said it's that deep that's the idea
behind how deep these things really are
in this sacred season if you will of
remembering that to us a son is
given in this season I want you to think
about how we appropriately would call
him Everlasting father it's one of his
descriptive names that it is absolutely
appropriate to call Jesus the Christ the
son of the Father the Son of the Living
God
Everlasting father but how how is that
appropriate you know when God
condescends to man I you may not think
about it this way but when God
condescends to
man he doesn't just drop you know a
couple of IQ
points he has to come down and talk baby
talk to
us this is baby talk what we think is
high and lofty is his baby talk he is to
talk way below where he thinks so he
adopts childish speech to try to help
our little Minds perceive these big
Ideas which we struggle
with Arabs use a term that will make
more sense in this lesson they call a
man the father of something when it is
descriptive of it okay for example a man
who's really WI
they would call him the father of wisdom
that's a common thing to do or if a
man's really foolish they might call him
the father of folly so that's common so
thus Jesus is given this descriptive
term of everlasting father not because
he had any children because he never had
he never had a wife on earth except the
church right so he didn't have children
so he wasn't a physical father so in
what sense this has got to be a
descriptive term right so how is he
because he's not the father how is he
our father and so I'm going to look at a
few things here and I want you to
understand that there are many more this
is more of a praise of our uh Our Savior
Jesus Christ than it is something that
you go away and you say well now I've
got it all sewed up no no no no no this
is just a I'm getting sticking your Coe
in the water so you get an appreciation
of who that was that son that was born
to us that the government forever more
would be upon his shoulder and he would
forever more be called by us everlasting
father so we look at those so we need we
need we need this we need it more than
you think let's go straight to the text
the son would be called Everlasting
father as in his
being the leader of us all I'm going to
read just a few scriptures Isaiah 9: 6
and 7 For unto us a child is born unto
us a son is given and the
government both the world and the
kingdom the government will be upon his
shoulder and his name will be called
wonderful counselor we've called him
that Mighty God we've called him that
right here Everlasting father we are
calling him that right now Lord willing
next Sunday we'll call him Prince of
Peace of the increase of his government
so it increases of his government and
peace there will be no end kind of like
the universe expanding
forever unto upon the throne of David
that's how he's King and over his
kingdom to order it and to establish it
with with judgment and Justice that's
the teaching that he has given us from
that time forward even forever and the
Zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform
this in John 10: 3 and 4 it says this to
him the
doorkeepers open and the sheep hear his
voice are you hearing you hear his voice
and he calls his own Sheep by name and
leads them
out and when he brings out his own sheep
he goes
before them and so he has and the Sheep
follow him for they know his voice it is
what we are doing right now he's already
LED out and we're in the process of
following him in 1 Timothy chapter 6:
14- 15 it says this until our Lord Jesus
Christ appearing which he will manif EST
in his own time he who is the blessed
and only potentate the king of kings and
Lord of lords so as a father is a leader
of a
family he is our leader so he is like a
father Christ is a father and and first
thing a father is is a leader he is like
a king or over a tribe and a head
of what's going before and it represents
his people that's how number one he is
like a father because he is our leader
number
two the son would be called Everlasting
father as in his being the
founder so this is a descriptive term
Hebrews 12 and verse 2 looking unto
Jesus the author and finisher of our
faith well I thought the father was the
author
the author and finisher of rith who for
the joy that was set before him endured
the cross despising the shame and has
sat down at the right hand of the Throne
of God so he is the author of our faith
he is the one who basically pinned it if
you will and Genesis chapter 4: 20 and
21 it says and adah bore
jabal he was the father of those who
dwell in tents and have
livestock wait a minute how could that
be come back to his brother's name was
Jubal he was the father of all those who
play the harp and flu wait a second some
of y'all probably have raised cows I've
been a part of raising
cows my daddy's name is bule it sure
certainly isn't this
jball in fact there ain't a jball
anywhere in my family there's not a Jew
ball either we' we've had some people in
our family that actually played
instruments in a band I won't name
anybody Bethany
but or Emily for that matter so I mean
the point is is that you can be the
father of something that you didn't
actually
father you can be the father of
something and so here's a case of our
faith he authored and he is the founder
of our faith and by being the founder
and the originator of our faith he is
our father Christ is a father as a
Founder as an author as an originator as
an inventor of an occupation he is so
he's a father as an El leader he is a
father as an a
Founder the son would be called
Everlasting father as in being the
provider what is a father do well he's
supposed to provide for his family is he
not that's a struggle and it takes a lot
of our time a lot of you men have
traveled have to be away from your
families some of y'all do some jobs that
nobody wants to do you do jobs that you
don't want to do we all do that but I'm
just saying to provide for the family is
not the easiest thing in the world to do
in John chapter 6 and verse 51 I am the
living bread which came down from heaven
what does is the main thing the father
provides bread food listen I am the
living bread I'm the living food which
came down from heaven if anyone eats of
this bread if anyone eats the food I'm
providing he will live forever and so
this isn't talking about his body this
is talking about the method of Salvation
he provides for us all that we are able
to eat of it's not talking about the
Lord's Supper it is talking about eating
of his flesh and his bones which is the
truth of the Gospel receiving that in
that's what that takes is about and the
bread that I shall give is my flesh
which I shall give for the life of the
world so basically he has provided for
us what we need to live in job
29:16 job said this about
himself I was a father to the poor and I
searched out the case that I did not
know now let me explain something to you
you you don't have to be the physical
father that you and your wife produce a
child to be a
father
amen that you if you take care of a
child you are their father whether you
had them naturally or whether you
adopted them you become the father and
you become the provider for that family
and you no one can question that you are
the father of that family and when you
step into some other family and you
provide for that poor family you have
become a father to that family so when
you question that Jesus could be called
Everlasting father you need to think
just a moment because that is exactly
what he is and he has provided for us
Christ is the father as in the sense of
a father is a provider for anybody that
has a need within that house he is a
feeder he is a take uh a caretaker one
who takes care of the family so he's a
father in the sense of being a leader
he's a father in the sense of being a
founder of our faith he's a father in
the sense of providing for us the
sustenance we need to be able to live
not only now because everyone doesn't
live by their bread they live by the
word of God and by the word of God by
the way we're talking about Jesus
remember that when you go back and read
that old T we're really talking about
Jesus and so everyone will live by that
bread and feed us like a father like job
says he did for the
poor and then the son would be called
Everlasting father as in being the
reproducer father's reproduce 1 Peter
1:23 says having been born
again how were we born
again how you are now Born Into The
Kingdom you've been born again now if
you've been born born again you have to
have a father right well listen to what
it says having someone that caused you
to be born again having been born again
not of corruptible seed not by an
Earthly father the way that we are born
here not of corruptible seed but
Incorruptible through the word of God
wait a minute who's the word of God
again Jesus Through the word of God
which lives and abides forever so the
word is a real thingy if you will it's a
real person it's a real being and his
name is Jesus so 1 Corinthians 4:15 says
for though you might have 10,000
instructors this is Paul talking talking
to the Corinthians for though you may
have 10,000 instructors in Christ you
may have lots of teachers maybe every
one of the congregation will get up and
teach and you may have that done though
you may have 10,000 instructors in
Christ yet you do not have many fathers
for in Christ Jesus I've begotten you
through the gospel the person who taught
you the gospel listen to me listen to me
whoever taught you and got you to repent
of your sins confess the name of Christ
and to be baptized whoever did that for
you is a spiritual father to you they
helped birthed you they helped birthed
you whoever that was and thank God
always for that person who came whoever
they were and they helped you find your
way they became your spiritual father
father here's the case in our situation
no matter how you wrap it up he came to
us all Jesus Christ came through the
person who came to us and it was
actually Christ the word of God that
through this Incorruptible seed that we
have been born again so literally he's
our reproducer he is our father if you
will he is our birther and he's the one
that is the lifegiver so he's not only a
leader and in that sense of father and a
a founder and that sense of father and a
provider and that sense of father he's a
reproducer and in that sense of Father
let's go to one more thing the son would
be called Everlasting father as in being
the Exemplar the
example 1 Peter chapter 2:
211 for to this you were
called because Christ also suffered for
us leaving us an
example that you should follow his steps
now maybe you don't remember some of you
gentlemen will maybe remember this if
your father was alive and you had a
father that you
knew and your father was walking along
outside because you dreamed of being a
man yourself and he would make steps and
you'd try to step where he stepped you'd
have to hop to do it you couldn't even
do it I remember many times where I'm
like man it takes two steps for every
step they make or three do you remember
that any nearly running trying to keep
up with those steps that they were
making what were we trying to do we were
trying to walk in his steps we're trying
to walk in his steps which is exactly
what we're told we're to do with Jesus
we're to step where he stepped step how
he stepped walk in his steps because
he's our example Romans
4:16 um says this to those who are of
the faith of Abraham who is the father
of us all now Abraham became the father
of the Jewish people unless you're
Jewish you are not a direct sent
physically in any way of Abraham so this
idea that Jesus has to literally be a
father to you to be declared the
Everlasting father you need to give that
up right now right right because Abraham
is our father he's the father of the
faithful and therefore what I'm
suggesting is is that the Jews treated
him even the Gentiles who converted they
treated Abraham as his father and we now
treat Abraham as our father father
Abraham right we sing it all the time
Father Abraham many sons we're them
we're the sons that he had we are his
children because we follow that same
Faith so Abraham is now our our father
so Christ therefore as our example that
we want to walk in the steps of is a
father as a father is to children we try
to step where he stepped so now I
haven't Just Got Started let me tell you
something if you think this is the hole
on this subject you're mistaken this
could go we could sit here all day long
on this
one and I still wouldn't
cover but here's what we looked at he's
a father as in being our leader as in
being a founder of our faith as in being
a provider for saving us and feeding us
as in being a reproducer how we were
born again as is being an Exemplar or an
example to us we need that we need a
father figure
always December the 6
2015 s ber Bernardino never could say
that real well San
Bernardino there was a shooting in an
office there 27 year-old Denise
perazza is the one that tells this
story she tells about a gentleman named
Shannon Johnson who was
45 Who U when these people came in to
shoot up their office
uh Shannon Johnson shielded her
body he wrapped his left arm around
27-year-old Denise perazza and held her
close and whispered to
her I got
you here's her
words by the way Shannon Johnson the man
who did that didn't make it he died she
said this Wednesday
morning at 10:55 a.m. we were seated
next to each other at a table joking
about how we thought the large clock on
the wall might be broken because time
seemed to be moving so slowly you've
been in meetings like
that I would have never guessed that
only 5 minutes later we would be huddled
next to each other under the same
table using a fallen chair as a shield
from over 60 rounds of bullets being
fired across the
room while I cannot recall every single
second that played out that
morning I will always remember his left
arm wrapped around me and holding me as
close as possible next to him behind
that chair and amidst all the
chaos I'll always remember him saying
the these three words I got
you I got
you I believe I am still here
today because of this amazing
man this amazing selfless
man who always brought a smile to
everyone's face in the office with his
Lively stories about his hometown back
in
Georgia always no matter
what remember the three
words I got
you that's the three
words that you need to hear all the
time Jesus Like a
Daddy I got
you I got
you and he took the blow
he took the
blood and died for
it I got
you so the father
does all that needs to be done by and
for and through the
Sun and in so doing the son becomes the
Everlasting father to to
us and he will always be the Everlasting
father to
us because he's the one they put his arm
around us and said I got
you father sent him somebody actually
had to put their arm around in and say I
got
you and he did it what a wonderful time
of the year to allow him to be in our
Christmas amen
if you have seen
Jesus you have seen the
father Everlasting
father I hope you'll make a
relationship with your father because
one of the worst things in the world is
to not have a good relationship with
your mother or not have a good
relationship with your
father well this one he's reaching out
to you and he wants to grab a hold of
you and say to you and you whisper I got
you won you come if you need to while we
stand and while we sing
