you know our giving
indicates thinking about stewardship our
giving indicates our love for God or the
lack
thereof uh there were two bills uh on
their way back to the Federal Reserve
have you ever seen Federal Reserve you
know that works all of our money which
nobody hardly uses anymore but all of
our money goes back to the Federal
Reserve and they shred it and burn it
right especially after it gets old well
there were two bills before they were
destroyed destroyed they were talking to
each other one was a $100 bill and one
was a $1 bill so these two bills are
sitting there next to each other on the
conveyor belt and they kind of struck up
a conversation and the $100 bill was
talking about all the interesting places
he'd gone in his life you know his
life's about to be over and he's telling
me all the places he'd been he traveled
all over the country he said I've been
to the finest restaurants I've been to
Broadway shows I've been to Las Vegas
I've been to amusement parks all over
the country I've been on Caribbean
cruises Where Have You Been $1
bill and the $1 bill said
oh I've been to a Methodist
Church an Episcopal Church a Baptist
Church and a Lutheran
Church and the h b bille said oh what's
a
church we'll be talking about
stewardship soon
you know so our giving does have an
effect upon the way we feel toward God
our family also indicates our love for
the Lord not just our giving but our
families uh one Minister was talking to
some children in the Sunday school
class and he said uh kids why do you
love God and finally there wasn't a lot
of answers but there were a few little
simple answers but finally one kid uh
gave him the answer he liked best he the
little boy said well I don't know sir I
guess it just runs in our
family and I think maybe that's
true I think maybe that's true so our
family may indicate our love for God uh
our family may indicate it but you may
have noticed in this text did you notice
the difference when we were reading
through you pick up on those differences
I want to take you to the biggest subtle
difference you might have missed uh I
think I've got it in my notes here maybe
I do maybe I don't yeah there it is
Deuteronomy 6 and verse 5 this is the
original that Jesus is actually quoting
right there are a couple other places
where this is said but this is probably
the one he's quoting Deuteronomy 6
verse5 it's it's called the Shima and uh
he he says you shall love the Lord your
God with all your heart with all your
soul and with all your strength and
notice what our text in Matthew 22 uh 37
says Jesus said You shall love the Lord
your God with all your heart with all
your soul with all your mind did you
pick up on that now if you paying
attention the other readings we had
picked up the word strength did you pick
up on that and added that in and so you
may be wondering well is this correct it
is correct mind is correct and it
actually is not a perversion of the text
so we look at that a little bit here's a
question that I think that is important
for us to ask though Is This Love of God
that we're told that we're supposed to
have that's supposed to be the number
one thing is it a sweet
affection or is it a faithful submission
let's look at what was meant in the Old
Testament when this was said because
Jesus is only teaching in this text what
was taught right he's not teaching
really something new this is the same
thing he always taught because this is
what the word said Deuteronomy 11:1
remember Jesus is the word made flesh so
Deuteronomy 11:1 says you shall love the
Lord your God and keep his charge his
statutes his judgments and his
Commandments
always does that sound like a sweet
affection or does it sound like faithful
submission Deuteronomy 11 and verse 22
says keep all these Commandments to love
the Lord your God to walk in all his
ways and to hold fast to him sweet
affection faithful submission
Deuteronomy
19:9 keep all these Commandments and do
them to love the Lord your God and to
walk
always in his ways
love of a sweet affection or a faithful
submission Deuteronomy 30: 16 love the
Lord your God to walk in his ways and to
keep his Commandments his statutes and
his judgments that you may live and
multiply and the Lord your God will
bless you John now Jesus in the New
Testament is he taking up sweet
affection or is he promoting a faithful
Mission when he's talking about loving
the Lord in John 14: 211 he who has my
Commandments and keeps that's same word
we saw a minute ago and keeps them is he
who loves me and will be beloved to my
father so from the words of Jesus we
kind of see which direction this leans
don't we even the law very clear on the
subject so if you have a sweet affection
for the Lord that's lovely but but
that's not what it's calling for it's
calling for more than a sweet affection
for Jesus it's calling for faithful
submission so I want to look at three
ways that you are to love your Lord that
Jesus spells out I want to get into it a
little bit deeper into the minutia there
so we get really a maybe a little deeper
understanding it won't be a profound
thing you're not going to walk out of
here tonight and said oh wow never seen
that before it's what going to be like
that but it will maybe help you focus on
it a little bit better I hope that's it
especially when you see the first point
love the Lord your God with all your
hearts Focus that seems to be the thrust
of this stay with me it says and Jesus
said You shall love the Lord your God
with all your heart so what does it mean
all your heart that if you really study
the word out seems to suggest your whole
inner man it's not the way we T we tend
to turn this into the emotions that's
not really the thing here it it in fact
the word heart the reason that your
heart's called a heart is CA is at the
center of your body what do you call the
center of a of a tree you call it the
heart would right that's the idea so all
your heart suggests your whole Inner Man
your whole will your whole core
especially your core values the things
that you hold dearest your whole Center
and your whole heart's Focus therefore
so what's at the center of you that's
how you are to love the Lord so how do I
make the love for the Lord all my
heart's Focus how do I do that well
here's a few scriptures Deuteronomy 4:
29 we are told to seek him with all your
heart so one of the ways that you are to
love him is you are to seek him with
your core your core values and that's a
part of loving him to seek Him
Deuteronomy 11:13 serve him with all
your heart with that those core values
with that Center of your life that
Center that internal man you are to love
him by serving
him that's obedience but it's more than
that Deuteronomy 30 and: 6 it uses this
term circumcise your heart obviously
that's a different thing that we talk
about physically but so it's not talking
about a physical thing this is now
talking about your heart that is get the
uncleanness out of the center of your
life and the inner man so circumcise
your heart and the heart of your
descendants to love the Lord your God
with all your heart that core man so let
me ask can I do this that is in front of
you let me ask
myself do I love love the Lord my God
with all my heart's
focus with all my inner man with all my
will with all my core values with all my
center with all my heart's focus and the
answer is
no but I want
to I want to love him with all my
heart's Focus
do you want that I want it I just don't
think I make it maybe you do hope you
do I wish that I could tell you honestly
I know I
do I'm G to tell you straight up I don't
think I
do but I want
to love the Lord your God with all your
Soul's
fervor so he says you shall love the
Lord your God with all your heart and
with all your soul now what does all
your soul mean here may not mean what
you thought it seems to suggest your
whole being you say that's the same
thing no it's your whole
life your whole
self your whole
desires and in this your whole passions
so what you thought when it says with
your heart you probably thought emotions
when it uses the word Soul it means more
that hard in the first thing means
inward the
core when it uses the word Soul it's
more suggesting of your whole passions
your whole appetites your whole
emotions so it's right to love the Lord
with your emotions that's right but it's
primarily meant by the word Soul your
whole Soul's fervor so you're the fervor
your ENT feelings your ENT concerns are
implied by loving him with all your soul
more than it is by the word heart that
might come as a little bit of a shock to
you but that is the real way you should
see this so how do I make the love for
the Lord all my soul's fervor all my
soul's fervor of appetite the thing I
want the thing I desire the passion that
I have for my life how do I do that well
here's some scriptures to look at
Deuteronomy 26 and verse 16 the Lord
your God commands you to observe these
statutes and judgments and then he says
be careful to observe them with all your
soul that means if you're going to do it
with your whole soul you have a passion
about it that means you take very good
care you are careful to do it
it is a passion if it's a passion you're
careful about it you don't do anything
halfhazard that you have a passion about
you do it meticulously Deuteronomy
30:10 if you obey the voice of the Lord
your God to keep to keep his
Commandments and to turn to the Lord
your God with all your soul so one of
the ways that we love him with all of
our soul with all of our passion is that
we turn to him when do we turn to him
well when we sin you know at that once
in the blue moon no it means to turn to
him every time we sin so if it's your
passion you turn to him Lord I know I
just messed up Lord I'm sorry you saw
what I did today Lord you know what I
just said to so and so and I shouldn't
have said it you turn him immediately
because this becomes your appetite being
right with him being submissive to him
loving him with your whole soul in 1
Peter 4 and: 8 it says Above All Things
how fervent love so what he's suggesting
is is that there needs to be a
passion when it says Soul kind of fits
more the way we use Soul he had he put
his soul into it you understand he put
his soul in it you could feel his soul
in that right that's the idea so all of
your passions so let me in front of you
just ask myself do I love the Lord my
God with all my soul's fervor
you can ask yourself if you want but I'm
just being honest in front of you so
with all my
being with all my desires with all my
passions with all my appetites with all
my emotions with all my soul's fervor to
I Love the Lord that way and the answer
has to be
no I
don't but I want to
I want to love him with all my soul's
fervor but I don't quite make
it number
three love the Lord your God with all
your mind's
force that seems to be the sentiment let
me read it again you shall love the Lord
your God with all your heart all your
soul and with all your mind even though
it says strength right we read that mind
strength so let's talk about that idea
all your mind or all your strength well
the suggestion of this is a combined
idea okay so this combined idea is first
your whole mind what does that suggest
it suggest your whole
disposition your whole thoughts
right well what does then your whole
strength suggests it suggests your whole
might your whole mental and mind force
what you can bring to
bear with all that you are bringing it
to Bear how do I make the love for the
Lord all my mind's force in other words
I will put every ounce of strength into
the thing I have put my mind
toward how do I do that Isaiah
26:3 you will keep him in perfect peace
we made reference this this morning
whose mind is stayed on you because he
trusts in you so one of the ways that I
can love the Lord with all my mind
strength is keep my mind on him it takes
effort to keep your mind focused on
something takes effort to keep your mind
on it you got to put some effort to it
takes your strength it's not always easy
it's hard at times Philippians 3: 19
whose end is destruction who set their
mind on Earthly things so there's a type
of person who will be destroyed and the
reason they'll be destroyed is because
they just set their mind in their minds
mental Force doing Earthly things that's
where they're at what you doing tomorrow
I'm doing this what you doing next day
I'm doing that's my focus that's my
Force that's what I'm putting all my
energies into and I'm keeping my mind on
those things well that can end in
destruction because all those things are
going away col colians 3:2 puts it this
way though it says set your minds on
things above not on things the Earth so
if you're going to put your strength in
it you got to set your mind on it or you
won't put your strength in
it so set your mind on things above so I
have to ask myself the question you ask
yourself do I love the Lord with all my
mind and my mental Force with all my
mind with all my
disposition with all my
thoughts with all my thoughts with all
my strength with all my strength with
all my might with all my mind's Force do
I do
that the answer is
no but I want to how do I know the
answer is
no I see
so it's not
all if it were all I would not sin
wouldn't I right I clearly sin when I
sin well I didn't mean to do it well it
didn't matter why you did it you did it
and you made a decision to do it I
sinned it wasn't at that moment it
wasn't all was it when I said the thing
I shouldn't have said and my mind wasn't
there my my soul wasn't there my heart
wasn't there at that moment uh no it
wasn't my all wasn't all all means it's
all right it's not
all so but I would like to love him with
all my mind's Force so that's the lesson
um I read this Matt Chandler talking
about such things he said this the
universe shutters in
horror that we have this infinitely
valuable infinitely deep infinitely Rich
infinitely wise
infinitely loving God and instead of
pursuing him with steadfast passion and
then thrall Fury instead of loving him
with all our heart soul mind and
strength instead of attributing to him
glory and honor and praise and power and
wisdom and strength we just try to take
his toys and
run it is still idolatry to want God for
the benefits but not for
himself dietr Bon Hofer said it this
way loving God means
rejoicing in
God being eager to think of and pray to
God it means glad to be in God's
presence and to be with God Alone it
means not grieving in God but rejoicing
in God simply because it's God who is
involved and because we are permitted to
know and to have God and to speak with
and to live with God Philip mugh put it
this
way
God and God
Alone will be the
joy of our eternal etal
home he will be our one
desire and our hearts will never Tire of
God and God Alone what do you think
you're going to heaven
for the
goodies or The
God so remember love for
God loves this is how love for God loves
it
loves when our heart is broken
Beyond
repair and when we don't feel loved we
still love
God when we think we've lost every
reason to love
him it still loves
God Andrew Brunson this is an
interesting story let me share this with
you he was a Christian preacher in North
Carolina and then he moved to Turkey and
he spent 20 years doing Mission work in
Turkey until 2016 and in 2016 there was
a failed military C in
Turkey the government arrested him along
with journalists and activists and
Military Officers and others and the
Turkish government accused Andrew
Brunson uh of being a spy he was not a
spy uh Brunson was held for more than a
year without any
charges he spent nearly two years in
prison after enduring a long trial so
like three
years at one point it looked like he
could spend years or even decades in a
Turkish prison and they're not the
nicest prison they're not like our
prisons finally uh pressure from the
Trump Administration back the first one
uh Brunson was released from prison and
returned to the United States but that's
not the interesting thing all that's
just
background uh in a Wheaton College if
you know Wheaten College in a Wheaten
college chapel talk Brunson was asked to
speak Brunson candidly said that he did
not feel God's overwhelming presence
during his stay in prison
instead he experienced what he said was
something
deeper he said after a few days in
prison I completely lost the sense of
God's
presence God was
silent and he remained silent for two
years when he was finally brought to
trial things got even worse here are his
words listen to this if you think you're
in a place well Rex you just don't
understand what I'm going through you're
talking about loving the Lord you don't
know what I've been through okay listen
to this man you don't know what he's
been through let me read to you what he
said there are
some who go into the valley of
testing and some do not make it
out I
was
broken I laid there alone in my solitary
cell I had great
fear terrible
grief and I was
weeping and the thought kept going
through my mind where are you
God why are you so far
away and I finally opened my mouth as I
wept aloud out and I was surprised at
what I heard coming out of my mouth I
heard I love you
Jesus I love you
Jesus and I thought here is my
victory even if you're silent God I love
you even if you let my enemy harm me
I love you and as Jesus said but the one
who stands firm to the end will be
saved Roger Kipling maybe Put It Best in
1895 when he said if you can keep your
head when all about you are losing
theirs and blaming it on you if you can
force your heart and nerve and S you to
serve your turn long after they
God and so hold on when there is nothing
in you except the will which says to
them hold
on and maybe you can become a disciple a
real
one a real Apprentice of the Lord Jesus
Christ not just hearing believing
repenting and confessing and being
baptized but really loving him with all
all your
heart your core
values with all your
soul your
fervor your
passion and with all your might and
strength and
Minds thoughts and
fervor and so I'll leave you with these
words the Lord bless you and keep you
the Lord make his face shine upon you
and be gracious to you the Lord lift up
his countenance upon you and give you
peace I hope that isn't not just the
words for the end of the year the words
for the rest of next year in fact I hope
that's the words for all of your life
and that love love for God not this just
emotional
something faithful submission to the
Lord will be the
defining way of explaining how you
lived do you love him I'm not sure I do
but I want to God bless you I hope you
do too
