too often I think we imagine it's going
to be a bad day when we really don't
have any evidence it's going to be a bad
day it's funny how we get almost a a
Gloom can come over you and yet there's
no evidence for it but there are reasons
occasionally to be a little nervous so
if you see a 60 Minutes news team
waiting at your office uh you that's
probably evidence uh if the news uh you
turn on the TV or or the radio and it
says all the emergency routes out of
town are blocked and but everybody's
trying to get out that's probably
evidence if your car horn goes off and
you can't stop it and you're stuck
behind uh a group of Hell's Angels
that's evidence you may be going to have
a bad day if your boss tells you uh no
don't bother coming into the office
we'll just leave a box outside that's
evidence you may be about to have a bad
day someone and I don't know how they
did this I really don't I was reading
this and I thought boy that's I've heard
that all my life but I'm really I'm
baffled as to how they got this
information really you hear it again and
you think about now how would they get
this information but you've probably
heard it that most of our anxiety is
unnecessary and these the the statistics
40% of all our worries will never happen
how did they get that information the
the second one is 30% of all our worries
are in the past and we can't change them
again how do they get that information
uh 15% of all of our worries are from
criticism from others and it's mostly
untrue so don't worry about it and 10%
of our worries are about our health and
if you worry about your health it only
makes your health worse so it's better
not to worry about it and finally only
8% of of our worries are real problems
but you're going to have to face them
anyway so why are you worried about them
you you're going to have to deal with
them but I don't know where they got
those statistics do you think about it
just a second I'm not sure how they
would get those statistics generally
though I do believe it's true that we
fear things not
nearly as big as we think they are I
think we have this idea that things are
much okay
that's that's great that's last week's
outline okay you don't be looking up at
the screen it's useless to you oh wait
no that's last how he got in there I
don't know it doesn't matter that's not
what we're teaching tonight so generally
though we fear I I heard this that fog
okay y'all we have some serious fog
around here especially around four uh I
four you know what I'm talking about if
you've been on it it can be real serious
did you know that a dense fog covering
seven city
blocks 100 ft deep so it's 100 ft this
way can't see anything seven city blocks
square is compos composed of one glass
of
water that's
60 billion droplets evaporated one glass
of water is all it took strange isn't it
and one glass of water therefore can
 an entire city or the highway
and it's kind of like that with fear a
lot of times it's a little thing but it
gets so blown out stretched out of
proportion it can block everything and
stop everything there's a Swedish
proverb that goes like
this worry gives a small thing a big
Shadow I like that worry gives a very
small thing a big
Shadow I think that's probably true so
even if we don't have anything to worry
about sometimes we worry about not
having anything to worry about you ever
seen that one and literally I've seen
people worried well I I don't know what
I should be worried about right now but
it's worryed me I want to walk your way
through well you never mind that we'll
walk our way through uh we can and these
are going to be pretty simple but
they're in your scriptures maybe you can
turn we're mainly going to be in
Philippians chapter 4 I actually did
make an outline I did upload it I don't
know where it went but we did do that
Philippians
4:6 by anx be anxious for nothing but in
everything by prayer and supplication
with Thanksgiving let your requests be
made known to God so I think we cope
better it doesn't mean it goes away but
we cope better with our anxieties when
we just have prayer so prayer is one of
the great relievers of some of our
stress Ephesians 5:20 puts it this way
giving thanks always for all things to
God the father in the name of our Lord
Jesus Christ now that's a tough one but
if in the middle of something that's
stressing you out you manage to give God
thanks for even that that's a good thing
uh Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 18
praying always with all prayer and
supplication in the spirit being
watchful to this end with all
perseverance and supplication for all
the saints so all prayer that means all
kinds in every kind of way that you
could pray that that will relieve a lot
of your stress and you'll be able to
just persevere that's the suggestion of
the text in 1 Thessalonians 5: 17 and 18
it says pray without ceasing in
everything give thanks for this is the
will of God in Christ Jesus for you so
if we pray all the time you say well
well I get worried well yeah well start
praying well then I get worried again
well start praying just pray without
ceasing you'll be amazed 1 Timothy 2 and
verse one it says I exhort first of all
that supplications prayers intercessions
and giving of thanks be made for all men
this is an instruction for our worship
this is literally the text is about
worship there 1 Timothy 2 about how
we're supposed to conduct ourselves in
worship so particularly we
should I guess I guess I'd say this I
love singing I love preaching I love
reading the Bible but you know he said
my house will be called a House of
Prayer maybe we don't pray enough in
worship and maybe we should pray a whole
lot more than we do you know what I mean
so and and maybe we'd be a lot more
relaxed after we leave church if we
prayed more uh some would be asleep as
they' been over but there you know
there's no limit to how much we can pray
according to what I just said because
you can pray about everything now think
about this a second how many things are
there you're going to pray about
everything there's no limit right so and
prayer will will limit our anxieties so
if there's no limit to prayer and prayer
limits our anxieties best thing to do is
pray pray second thing I want you to
look at is and by the way I mean you
could pray but you'll never probably
pray a billion prayers unless the S you
set that as a goal I'm I'm thinking that
would probably not happen but you'll
never pray that many times so pray as
much as you can second lesson I think
that's important in this text is we cope
better with our anxieties when we have
peace now it produces peace in this text
but there there's a Reaching For Peace
that we're encouraged to do even in this
text it says be anxious for nothing but
in everything by prayer and supplication
with Thanksgiving let your requests be
made known to God then verse 7 says and
the peace of God which surpasses all
understanding so there is a peace of God
that comes from praying but more than
that Colossians 3:15 says let the peace
of God rule in your hearts to which also
you were called in one body and be
thankful again thankfulness is connected
to the peace of God ruling in your heart
again praying connected to being at
peace Isaiah 26 and verse3 says you will
keep him in perfect peace whose mind is
stayed on you because he trusts in you
the more you think about God so all
right when you are worried what are you
thinking about the thing you're worried
about right but if your mind could be
shifted to think about God and spiritual
things immediately because it's almost
impossible to think about two things at
once so immediately the stress drops
from there and you reach a level of
Peace because your mind is stayed on God
John 14:27 says peace I leave with you
my peace I give you not as the world uh
do I give it to you let not your heart
be troubled and neither Let It Be Afraid
so it's not like the world oh well uh
you know you you go see a therapist
that's not the way it works it's that
God gives it to you it's actually a gift
from God you don't create it you pray it
comes to you from God you spend time
with God you get peace you think on God
you get peace Philippians 4:9 says the
things which you learned and received
and heard and saw in me these do and the
God of Peace will be with you so every
moment you're with the God of Peace
you're pretty much at peace so there's
no limit to the peace of God because
God's infinite how much peace does God
have you think he's in heaven going oh
my goodness what am I'm going to do
tomorrow I mean something like that he's
never worried he's at peace and God's
peace will limit our anxieties third
lesson these really simple things but
let me stay with you so the first one
was prayer the second one was peace this
one is we cope better with our anxieties
when we have protection and We Know It
Philippians 4: 6 and 7 again be anxious
for nothing don't worry about anything
and the peace of God which surpasses all
understanding will
guard your hearts and Minds will guard
you does your heart and mind need to be
guarded well as someone who's lost their
marbles once upon a time I would
recommend that actually God does protect
our mind and he can protect our mind and
you want him to protect it in 1 Peter 1
verse5 it puts it this way who are kept
kept means to protect literally it's a
military term who are kept by the power
of God through faith for salvation ready
to be revealed in the last time so we
are protected by God and you need to
know you're protected by God and your
mind can be protected by God John 10:28
says neither shall anyone snatch them
out of my hand there is no way that your
will can be thwarted by the
devil you have to
choose he can't overrule your mind and
take you Romans 8 ver1 there is
therefore now no condemnation to those
who are in Christ Jesus who do not walk
according to the flesh but according to
the spirit there's no condemnation
there's no way to condemn you if God has
saved you it's not possible so Romans 8:
39 through 31 uh through 31 through 39
sorry What then shall we say to these
things if God is for us who can be
against us so basically you got to go
down the list there
are of all the methods out there he has
methods without number to protect us how
does God protect us somebody says well I
don't know how he does it so I don't
believe in it well it's
God he has an unlimited number of
methods he could use to protect your
mind and protect your soul uh he has an
I don't know how many but it looks like
an unlimited number of angels to protect
your mind protect your soul protect your
life and how many powers does he have he
said what do you mean how many powers
does he have I'm not talking about the
extent of the powers it's unlimited the
extent you and I have no idea what
powers God
possesses we none I mean we know he
creates life with a word we know he
creates a planet right we know he
created the universe we still don't know
the powers we know that Jesus ascended
up into heaven without being no cord was
around him hold you know drawing him up
he just flew in heaven apparently angels
can fly God can soar through the heavens
and we have no idea the list of the
powers it may be an infinite list of the
powers he
has you ever even thought about that so
he's going to protect you he's got all
the power he needs he's got all the
Angels he needs he's got all the methods
he needs he can protect your mind you
need to relax a little bit and believe
you're in his protection last Point
fourth point is uh not only prayer and
is uh the thing and not only peace and
protection but we cope better with our
anxieties when we have
power but it's not our power Philippians
4: 6 and 7 again I read it again last
time being anxious be anxious for
nothing but in everything by prayer and
supplication with
Thanksgiving um by the way you know I
know this gets redundant but can I
suggest something to you don't ever
think you've read a passage and you got
it all you can never read a passage too
many times and I have found that I've
read some passage hundreds of times and
suddenly I saw something I'd never seen
before so if you think you've seen it
all I think you're mistaken look at it
again and familiar passages need to be
read more closely let me read it again
verse six be anxious for nothing but in
everything by prayer and supplication
with Thanksgiving let your requests be
made known to God and the peace of God
which surpasses all understanding uh by
the way have you ever had that I know
I'm kind of getting off script here have
you ever had it I've only had that a
couple of times in my life
where uh I don't mean to be ugly but
kind of like all hell was breaking loose
in my
life and I was at perfect peace with
it I you remember that showing Deb she
remembers will guard your hearts and
Minds here's how through Christ Jesus
that's how that's how you really can
have peace it's through Christ Jesus why
because he has the power to do it how
does he have the power he died on the
cross for you Philippians 4:13 I can do
all things through Christ I I can't do
all things that's not an I can do that's
an I can do all things through Christ
who strengthens me so it's really Christ
making it happen Romans 11 Romans 1:16
I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ
for it the gospel is the power of God to
Salvation
for everyone who believes don't really
need to worry going to be saved because
the gospel has that power Ephesians 1:19
the exceeding greatness of his power
toward us who believe we we have no
concept of how powerful he is in
Ephesians 3:20 according to the power
that works within us well what kind of
power Works within us are you
different has he changed
you you know know something of the power
you don't know all of it but you know
something of it so uh there's no limit
to the power of God and God's power can
limit our anxieties so he's stronger
than Satan he's stronger than death he's
stronger than hate he's stronger than
disease and he's stronger than whatever
trouble you could
list you have the power to deal with the
anxiety or face so this is the lesson
simple four little ideas uh that kind of
help us cope with our fears we cope
better with our
anxieties when we have prayer so pray we
cope better with our anxieties when we
have peace we ask for peace and he can
give it we cope better with our
anxieties when we have protection when
we know that God is going to protect us
you say well how do you know God's going
to protect cuz he said he would it
that's how I know and we cope better
with our anxieties when we have his
power on our side and We Know It George
Mueller
massina George Mueller massina was one
of the generals of
Napoleon and he was to take an Austrian
town he had
18,000 Soldiers with him it wasn't that
big of a town he appeared on the
outskirts of the town and made Camp just
outside of this Austrian town and they
had no means really of Defending
themselves they would have fallen not
just in a day but probably within an
hour or two just nothing they could have
done so the Town Council decided to meet
obviously see 18,000 soldiers Ready for
War just mile or two off your door door
step so they met and they said well the
only choice we have is to capitulate and
tell them we give up there's no reason
of people dying we give up right that's
what you do and
yet there was a leader of the local
church that just simply said you know
it's Easter Sunday ain't that
interesting it was Easter Sunday
it's Easter
Sunday we should have church I mean I
know it's early I know you're worried
about the war but don't you think we
should at least go to church on Easter
Sunday and pray and even pray about this
before we walk out there and give
ourselves up and then they tear the
whole thing up here on a Sunday wouldn't
that be the best thing to do and they
all
said probably that's what we should do
so he said well ring the bell so he went
down to the church to announce church
service and he started ringing the bell
so that everybody had come to church
service and of course small town pretty
much everybody was going to do that but
as soon as the bell began to ring George
Mueller massina who was Napoleon's
General thought that the Austrian Army
must have just showed up and was
relieving them and that must be the
reason they're ringing the bell they
know they don't have anything to worry
about so he broke camp and left
18,000 soldiers disappeared within a few
minutes they were
gone and all it was was a
prayer all it was was a
prayer what a thing do you really
believe prayer could do
that it did do that it didn't maybe do
that it did do that we could I walk you
through several stories in the Bible
you're well aware
of where they started praising God
before they realized the enemy was
gone here's three little thoughts I want
to leave with
you fret
not God loves you John 13 ver1 having
loved his own who were in the world he
loved them to the
end he loves you and he loved you to the
end of his drops of
blood if you've got any doubt that God
loves you you remember that the blood
drained from him out of love fret not
God loves you faint not we tend to give
up faint not god holds you right now
Psalm
139:10 your right hand shall hold
me
now you imagine that just a second I
don't care what your anxiety is he's
holding
you I don't care what your stress is
he's holding you and if you think he
isn't just turn your back on him just a
minute you realize how he was there
holding it
together and then finally fear not God
keeps you back to what we read a moment
ago but Psalm 121:5 the Lord is your
keeper that means he's your protector I
I just think those are three really
simple ideas fret not God loves you
faint not god holds you and fear not God
keeps you you know as people of faith we
I believe more than
anybody should be able to cope with our
I I don't believe that you should never
have fears I I think that would be a
ridiculous thing for me to get up here
and say you'll never be afraid I I don't
think that'll I don't think that's
rational but you should be able to cope
with them and we as Believers should be
able to cope better than they out there
now I'm not saying that you would never
have a really bad time I'm just saying
that you ought to be able to cope better
than they would cope eliminate to do
this you need to eliminate the absolute
biggest fear of all you know how you
eliminate the biggest fear in your life
of
all by taking on the biggest fear of all
fear
God if you truly fear God and you keep
his
Commandments you really don't have a
bigger fear out there cu the last thing
you want to do is make God your
enemy that's the last thing you want so
you want to really try to live without
fear take on the greatest fear that fear
and that respect for God it'll eliminate
most if not all of your fears right
there
so if you're here tonight and you're
undergoing tremendous anxiety I
understand it we all have it we've all
been there we all struggle from time to
time it it can be really bad uh okay
that's not anyway go really bad I don't
want it either none of us do but if you
want to have some peace and maybe you're
not at peace I want to offer we'll pray
for you
tonight and if prayer can make1 18,000
soldiers run away it can make the devil
that's giving you trouble run away too
if you need to come come while we stand
and while we
sit
