studying uh before we begin our
discussion let's have a
prayer pray with me please holy and
righteous and loving God who are in
heaven we are truly grateful for this
and other day you've given us father we
we understand and believe that you are
our father and that you have called us
into your family and obedience to your
son Jesus Christ father we pray that you
go be with our hearts as we uh study
your word this morning and we pray that
something could be said that would make
us better people more suited for the
home that you prepared for us in the
next World father thank you so much for
all your love thank you for your
guidance be with each member of this
class be with their hearts be with their
minds and may something be said to make
them better people father we thank you
in Jesus name for all that you do for us
as humans
amen uh we have um we've been studying
well first of all good morning class and
I'm glad you're here and I hope that
something that we've done in the past
will has been of a benefit to you and
help you with your understanding of who
you are and what your purpose is here on
this Earth to live for God uh this is
the fourth week of our study and while
I'm thinking about this let me remind
you now on the 19th we're going to take
a break not from this class but from the
study that we're in we're going to take
a break and we're going to study uh
stewardship for one month and then we're
gonna come back so you got to keep good
notes of where we stop at and where we
pick up again at let me let's review for
the sake of you for the sake of time we
I'm going to spend a little time just
reviewing what we've already went
through and covered now uh this study is
on the subject of searching for truth I
want you to think about this for a
minute searching for truth
requires
involvement it requires
application it requires a certain amount
of commitment now I want you to think
about what Jesus says Jesus is a great
preacher Jesus was preaching the sermon
in the sixth chapter of the book of
Matthews now he began preaching the
sermon in the fifth chapter some people
call this the Beatitudes I don't know
whether that is correct or not but uh in
the sixth
chapter about the 33rd verse he is
talking to his audience and he gives
them some words of advice and I think
these words are applicable to you and I
that we can apply them to our life and
that certainly fits what we're doing
here we are seeking and searching for
truth Jesus said to his s seek ye first
the kingdom of God and all these things
will be added unto thee now what things
are he talking about these Treasures of
this world the things that we put our
value in these things are going to be
added to you anyway you're going to get
more than that if you seek first the
kingdom of God so that's what we're
doing we're searching so that we can
seek properly we need to know the truth
we didn't know we need to know about our
creator and that's what our subject
matter was for the past month our
subject matter was centered around the
Creator and we asked ourselves some
questions what do we really know about
our creator you should have gotten some
answers in these studies that we've
already had the information that I've
passed out to you you should have gotten
some answers if you follow through on
them but I it's it's choice you do it if
you want to
where your heart is is where your
activity is going to be where your heart
is is where your involvement is going to
be as it comes to doing that which God
would have his children to
do does he care about his creation those
are questions that everybody ask not not
the children of God but everybody asks
these questions in life what is it like
what is he like what ises God like do I
can I really know him can I really know
God well all of these answers uh uh was
in this study and we were were given
subjects and chapters to help us
understand that so let's let's discuss a
little bit uh uh in in very briefly
about what we've already should have
learned but before we do that I'm going
check to see if you've been keeping you
remember I told you to get familiar with
your document of Truth this is your
document of truth there's nothing wrong
with that little computer you carry
around with you with the Bible on it
nothing wrong with that a matter of fact
I appreciate that I'm glad we have those
but you need to get familiar with your
Bible of Truth you need to start leaing
through these things we have u i put a
proposal out before you as a child of
God you should be interested in what God
have said to you you know there were
times when God spoke to us in various
ways God even spoke to us or spoke to a
man one time through a
donkey the donkey talked God spoke to a
man
Through
Fire God spoke to a man by Angels coming
out on the ladder God had various ways
of speaking to his people he don't do
that anymore he speaks to us you and I
through this document of Truth the Holy
Spirit how can how can we know the mind
of God the Holy Spirit has revealed it
to us the spirit of God
came with miraculous powers and revealed
God's plan or his brain and his mind to
us and we have it in writing we just
have to get familiar with it we have to
spend some time in it so I made a
suggestion I've been doing it for five
years I've been studying my Bible
reading there's a difference between
reading and studying I study my Bible
regular but I read it every day the
first thing when I do when I get up
before I start my day I take a I take
time I to read certain chapters here's
an outline uh it's in this one is in
chronological order I read them all kind
of ways I read them in not in
chronological or I just read it from the
way the documents said it but I check
them off every day and I've done that
for SE several years hav a missed a day
make sure I don't miss a day before I do
anything if God can give me life every
day then I can show my appreciation for
God if God can watch over me while I'm
asleep and I can't watch myself a storm
can come through and blow that house
away and blow my life away the house can
catch on fire while I'm sleep and I
never wake up but God watches over me
and I thank him for that there's 168
hours in every week how much of that
time are we spending trying to
understand what it is our father expects
of us God is our father do you believe
that I am the physical father of five
children they're all grown now thank
God but they put Faith in me and what I
tell them I want they don't expect me to
tell them something that's not correct
God have not told us something that's
not correct but how are we going to know
what God have told us if we don't spend
no time trying to understand God what
are you saying to me you can take this
this and follow this plan every day you
can read x amount of verses or x amount
of uh chapters per day and you will get
to let's hear God eventually might not
happen the first day the first week
first year might not happen but
eventually when you have questions God I
don't understand this I don't I don't
have a clue what I'm reading here God is
not going to miraculously speak to you
and reveal that but as you continue to
reading continue reading you you you'll
come across the spot where you realize
oh that's what that really means I
understand it that's because you
spending time talking uh uh speaking to
God and talking to God and God is
talking to you but he speaks to you
through his document of Truth get
familiar with it get to memorize your
your your books in there where they are
how to find them eventually if you read
it every day you'll know where passage
the scriptures at you say oh hold up I
read the Bible all time they've heard
that somebody telling you some people
tell you false stuff and you say oh
that's in the Bible you don't know cuz
you don't read you don't study but if
somebody tell you something say now
listen I've never seen that but I'm
looking forward to it I'm going to go
and look it up you can do that so now
here's the first thing you should have
if you're going to participate in our
daily B reading program your New Year's
resolution if you're going to make this
part of your New Year's resolution I
passed out these charts you can get one
if you want one if you don't have one
see Robert he'll get you
one we also passed out uh an outline of
the book of Peter which that's our watch
watch chapter 1 and second Peter we're
using subjects and ideas from 1 and
second Peter on the first page you have
an introduction now all this should be
in your notebook if you're keeping up a
notebook on the first page you have an
introduction to Peter who he is what he
did and what he's talking
about and on the back side you have an
outline of first and second Peter in
relation to
subjects oh boy my fingers are so
and
old I get it open here in a minute but
anyway you have this and you can uh you
can go into it and study for instance
let's take let's let's take an example
here if you want uh the outline first
chapter
one the first first verses 1 through
three is a salutation an introduction
Peter telling you who he is and and what
his responsibilities to you are and and
and and and starting with verse
3-5 if you want to know what God have
promised you as your inheritance for
living for being in his family and
serving him as he suggests that you
should if you want to know that you can
study first Peter 3-5 that's your
Eternal inheritance all right now and he
goes to uh verse 6-9 he talks about the
joy of faithful Christians so the the
contextual picture in relationship as it
relates to you as a child of God is the
context is uh first Peter 1-9 that's the
context and the context is the change
now if you need an outline on that I'll
be glad to get you one but those are
subject matters if you're interested in
a subject look on here and pick out the
subject you want and go and study it
tells you where to study it from but
that's just part of what you should have
in your notebook now it's the stuff is
not going to jump off this paper in into
your mind and into your heart you going
to have to take some time and study it
for yourself the there's the Bible
there's a passage of scripture in the
Bible says study to show thyself
approved of God rightly dividing his
word of Truth a lot of people divide the
word of truth but they don't rightly
divide it as children of God you are
expected to rightly divide it divide it
correctly so you understand what applies
to what you you understand when you
reading in the patriarchal age that
message is not for you you understand
when you reading in the mosa age that
message is not totally for you though it
is for you because it's a it's an
example of what you're going to deal
with in the spirit age when you get in
the New Testament or the new contract
that Humanity has with God it tells you
how to live in your spirit see in your
dwelling Spirit there is a presence From
Another World it cannot die because it's
not from this world not there's a
physical structure in which that
presence exists which we call a human
body that's going to cease to function
like an old clock it going to run down
one day and somebody going to plant it
out in the field but that's not the end
of you that's not the end of life that's
a new beginning what have you done while
you Tabernacle on this Earth what have
you done with the Most Blessed uh gift
that God gave you which was life Jesus
said your responsibility to seek first
the kingdom are the governing authority
of God now that brings me to this point
next month after we're going to get
introduced to a a clip next week called
Authority we're going to look and see
where the authority at who tells me how
to worship God correctly where do I get
this Authority is it up to that fell
sitting in Rome is it up to somebody who
wrote a
book who has the authority to to to
decipher what is right and what is wrong
when it comes to religion all these
things are going to be open up to you in
our next study our next period of study
remember the Creator is the owner of all
things he said uh in in Psalm 50:
10-1 he says every cow on every heel
belongs to me it's all mine everything
belongs to me we don't own anything God
give us life he gives us breath we are
stewards we are responsible for what we
do with this life that God have given us
I have the responsibility to reach out
to my friends my my associates now this
is what the purpose of this class is to
get you prepared with enough knowledge
that you can help the people you love to
understand why you do what you do why
you believe what you believe but if you
cannot go to the Bible and prove it yeah
they going they're going to put you in
the category with the rest of them you
just talking just doing about what some
somebody heard what your grandma said
what you heard on television what you
believe or what you think my thoughts
are good as your thoughts that's what
they going to think but if you got proof
that you can show them what thus says
the Lord who and if they believe that
God is the author of Eternal salvation
you you got a better chance of talking
to them now this morning I'm going to
talk to you a little bit about my story
we all have a
story Peter in his book has a story he's
telling his readers about who Jesus is
and how he know Jesus is who he is says
he is I have a story you have a
story after you finish this class how
you should be able to go and sit down
and talk with your loved one and tell
them your story as it direct relates to
your conviction and your coming to
Christ I'm I'm going share mine with you
and I hope you take notes because I have
a very unique story when it when it
comes to obeying the gospel and I'm
going tell you why it's Unique and it's
and why it's Unique to me but you have
you should
have introduction to Peter you should
also have an outline or discussion from
how to read the book of Peter you should
have that in your notes and if you don't
have it Robert will get it for you he
will get it for you to make sure you
have it
uh we talked about
Corinthians we talked about the book of
Corinthians in the book of Corinthians
we talked
about what happens to me after I die
what what what I'mma live here for a
short period of time what's going to
become of me once my physical body
thanks sir what's going what's going to
become of me after my physical body
cease to function is that's that's is
that the end of me is life over for me
we talked about that well the answer to
that question is no that's not into you
now that's into your physical body but
you remember we talked about uh you got
choice in and the power to choose is
predicated upon you doing the way uh
obeying God the way Adam did when God
said to Adam in Genesis
1: 26 and 27 God said to
Adam you got a choice Adam you can eat
from any tree let's let's let's imagine
all these chairs in his Auditorium of
trees he says you can eat from any tree
you want to all of them have fruit just
have a party just go and eat anywhere
you want to eat but now hold it you see
that tree right there the one that's
right there on the corner I don't want
you eating from that one Power of Choice
that's symbolically represented with the
Trees of the garden we have that same
power God have given us a choice we can
do like Adam 1 Corinthians 15:22 as in
Adam all shall die if you do like Adam
you going to be eternally separ at for
me also as in Christ all shall be made
alive you can make the
choice to follow
Christ reject the desires and the
pleasure Pleasures that are being
stirred up in your physical body by this
world in which we live Satan is standing
on our shoulders whispering in our ears
telling us uh we can do this and we can
do that or whatever we want to do we
don't have to listen to anybody but your
life is yours that's not true
your life belongs to God he gave it to
you it's his life he's allowing you to
live in his life just imagine if you
will a tree with a bunch of leaves on it
just leaves everywhere they all hanging
off the tree let one of them fall off
the tree it can't
survive we can't survive as long as we
are holding on to God's life but once we
turn loose God's life our physical
structure ceases to exist but our life
continues oh we go into another world
now all that information is starting in
verse 35 of 1
Corinthians you coming to that
understanding is up to you how much time
are you going to spend looking for that
and researching that very idea is it
possible notice what it said in um do I
have a reader this morning do I have a
reader okay go ahead read look I'm going
give you time get 1 Corinthians 15 verse
44 through 47 let's just go get the
whole thing uh uh when you get there let
me know but we are two-dimensional
individuals our first part of Us come
from the earth Adam our second part came
from another world we call it Heaven
it's called
Paradise you pick it it's another it's a
spirit world John 4:24 says God is a
spirit and they that worship Him must
worship him in spirit and in truth we're
searching for truth we got to get in the
right Spirit if we are to find God and
that's what we're searching for we have
to get in the right Spirit read for
me chapter 15 verse
4447 it is sown a natural body it is
raised a spiritual body if there is a
natural body there is also a spiritual
body so also it is written the first man
Adam became a living person the last
Adam was a lifegiving spirit however
Spirit spiritual is not first but the
natural then the spiritual the first man
is from the earth Earthly the second man
is from
Heaven okay first you come from your
mother by your father's Choice your
father's lust you are a product of this
world carnal then you come from uh when
God breathe in gen Genesis
2:7 he he formed a man from the dust of
the earth and he breathed into his
nostrils the Breath of Life The Man
became a soul now that spirit is from
God it indwells your physical
body it can't die because God can't die
it lives on it continues to live and
that's the point that we want to get
here now I want I want to tell you
something very briefly I'm going make
sure I on time cuz I'm so I start
rambling and talking and I forget it'll
be 5:00 in the evening y'all be looking
at me funny and I don't know why okay
all right we got a little we still on we
still on track okay now if you don't
have if you don't have that passage that
that that def that that uh breakdown of
35- 50 see Robert and if you don't have
an outline you got it in your Bible
First Corinthians you got it in your
Bible but if you want to get some copies
of all these this information that you
might not have for your notebook then
see Robert Robert here's the
folder just see him and he'll get it for
you you tell him what you don't have and
what you what you need and you can get
it he'll be glad to let you have that
here here's another one here's some more
I got
here there's a rest so
yeah okay so uh this morning I want to
SP take the rest of this time talking
about your story and my story I'm going
to tell you about my story
and what what my point is
that when you're searching for
something God will help you find it you
know there's a passage in scripture says
within that context of uh of we talking
about seeking you shall find it's in the
seventh chapter there I think about
verse 12 somewhere along there in in
Matthew where Jesus is preaching and
he's talking to his AI he said seeking
you shall find knocking it be open unto
you now that simply means that you and I
don't hold me don't hold me on that
where that is it's right there somewhere
you might have to do a little look at
make sure I think it's seven somewh 7th
12th verse there but uh here's the point
the point is that if you're sincere and
you're seeking something you'll find it
because God will make a way for you to
find it he will help you if your heart
is right to thine own self first be true
you cannot be true to uh uh uh your wife
if you're not true to yourself you can't
be true to your children if you're not
true to yourself and you certainly can't
be true to your brothers in Christ if
you're not true to yourself to thine own
self first be true just as Jesus said
seek ye first the kingdom of God your
heart tells you and tells God if you are
seeking him first if your values are
laid up here on Earth if you put more
value in your carote then you do the
support of the work of the Lord Lord's
church and you might have a
problem if you put more value in buying
your groceries than you do support of
the Lord's work you just might have a
problem I'm not going to call you out
and say you do but I'm saying you could
God knows your heart I don't God is your
judge I'm not but I can tell you what
the book says when it comes to how we
should relate to God and he says seek ye
first the kingdom of God God's business
should be first in your life so let me
let me let me tell you a little bit
about
myself and I hope you understand this
now I grew up
in some of you probably don't have a
clue what I'm I'm I'm I'm talking about
when I say this I I I I grew up in the
in an age uh it's called the Jim Crow
age when I was born and I lived in that
age I remember as a kid uh looking on
the on at water fountain one said color
one said white I remember looking on
bathroom doors one said color one said
right that has nothing to do with what
we talking about now but I just want to
tell you where I come from I come from
an area in it's in a rural area I grew
up on a farm working every day of my
life I I first thing before I learned
how to walk good I learned how to
work my mother was a contractor my daddy
was a contractor of Dipping gum out of
the woods out of the trees that's what
my dad did he would contract so many
trees or so many acres of land and he'd
get that gum out of those trees and he'd
sell that gum he was a what would you
would what people call today as a tah
here that's what he did for a living and
he owned uh a a truck patch or a farm
that fed us and took care of us he had
10 children nine boys and one girl I'm
the fifth of the 10 the fifth born of
the 10 they had to eat there was tough
times you had to work when I was 3 years
old I used to walk around the tables and
pick up the toac and put it back on the
table because my mother was a contractor
of getting tobacco out of fields for
people who raised tobacco that was her
job that was she did and she had a
buil-in crew and I was part of her crew
and boy did she work us
uh that's growing up in that environment
in the area where we went to church
there was only one church out in them
Woods where we live and it was about
five or six miles away from where we
live and we used to go there on the
second and the fourth Sunday of every
month I used to wonder why what does
that got to do with anything why is the
second and fourth why can't be the first
and the third why can it not even be
because I'm not learning anything and I
was interested in learning and we'd go
to that church Faithfully on the second
and the fourth of every
Sunday and what was being taught there
was not a whole lot that was in the
Bible so I grew up wondering what wonder
what's in that book I see that preacher
read some one or two words out of it and
he closed it and he start holling at
people most of the time I didn't know
what he was holling about or screaming
about cuz I my mind went somewhere
else but I grew up not knowing anything
really about God other than the
principle that there was a God and that
we all supposed to be worshiping him
that's all I knew how to do it correctly
incorrectly I had no
idea as when I became an
adult I always admired
uh the field of business for some reason
I don't know why uh so I had this urge
to do something of a professional
nature so I became eventually in time
after school some schooling some
training I became an insurance agent I
got involved in an insurance agency and
I did that for about 10 years and then I
went into the automobile industry stayed
there for about 30 year 20 years 20 plus
years I stayed in the the
automobile agency working for Chrysler
but now I said all this to say
this when I first was in insurance I had
some time on I I had some time on my
hand I knew how to read but I had never
owned the
Bible and I always had an urge to
understand or know what was in the Bible
but I never owned
one so one day I was at a a yard Cale
and a lady had one one of these Bibles
one of these big old things white with
red letters it was about big big thick
she had it and she wanted $6 for it so I
looked at the Bible and while I was
looking at I was thinking I never own
the Bible I ought to buy this but then I
closed it and walked away and I looked
at some other things then I started to
my car and she came out and and and and
and say did you like that
Bible I said yeah I'm interested I've
never own a Bible I was thinking about
buying it she said is $6 too much I
said' no that's that's a good price she
said I let you have it for
three I said no no I give you six so I
gave her $6 I got the Bible and I said
to myself I usually take about two hours
every day doing I was as an insurance
agent selling uh uh I take a couple
hours and sit in the park and just think
about things or read a book or something
read a novel uh take about a 2hour break
cuz most people was eating lunch and you
didn't want to be going to people house
while they
eating so I I started reading this Bible
and I started from
Genesis a year later I I every day I'd
read that Bible a year later I I finally
got it finished and I didn't have a clue
what I had
read I didn't know what I read I know I
read a bunch of stuff and seemed like to
me it was repeating itself over and over
and over and over so I say I'm going
start again I'm going do Again by this
time I done put the that that big old
Bible away and got me another Bible and
started reading it was smaller easy to
handle easy to carry
around so I began to read that Bible and
I and I was looking for something I
didn't have a clue what I was looking
for but I knew I was looking for
something in the process of time four
years later I I I wrote up a contract
for a
company for him for the the owner of the
company and all of his employees made
enough Commission on that sale to take
the rest of the year off if I so
desire but at the end of the contract
when I finished contract the his wife
was running the company she says my
husband want to talk to you I said well
did I meet him during any of these
meeting she said no um he's at home he
wants you to come by our home she gave
me the address I went by and I sat down
and I talked to him when I went went in
then talk to him he said I understand
you got some papers for me to sign I
said yeah you you have to sign them
right here and uh I gave him the papers
and he didn't really read what I gave
him he just took the papers and signed
them real quick and he said you got
anything else I can sign I said no
that's it he said well is our business
through on that on the end of this I
said yeah he folded up and he said okay
now here's what I want to talk to you
about so I said what do you want to talk
to me about and he says uh do you go to
church I say it's strange you ask that
cuz for the last four years I've been
going from church to church to church
trying to understand what's what's in
that Bible and I haven't had any success
at it I said I've been I know from the
fact that if God is one
God he wouldn't have all these different
plans
doctrines and teachings all teaching
differently I got enough sense to know
that if God wants me to serve him he
would tell me how to do it I believe
that and I don't think he'd leave me at
the hands of these people one person
over here cuz I went to 50 churches by
this time every Sunday morning I'd get
up and go to a different church trying
to understand I might go there a month
couldn't figure out what they was doing
I went to these dancing people where
they dance all over the place play drums
and play music didn't have a clue what
that was all
about so finally he says to me he says I
want to ask you a
question I said okay he said well if I
could show you in the Bible that there's
only one Church in which the Lord
started and where you can be
saved would you do what those people did
and get in that church now let me tell
you what he told told me to do you got
your Bible if you got your Bible with
you you can you can read along with me
in
Matthew 16 beginning at verse
13 He said to me he says go get your
Bible out the car so I went and got the
Bible by this time I got a Bible called
good news for more than
man I went in and I said I I he said
that's your Bible I said yeah he said
let me look at it so he looked at the
Bible and then he took it and dropped it
in the
trash so I said what are you doing he
said oh you don't need that he opened
his drawer and he gave me another Bible
it was still in the pack he said I want
you to go
to Matthew 16 start reading verse
13 this had this verse had an an a
profound effect on me the verse says
when Jesus came into the coast accessory
of Philippi he asked his disciples his
his students who do men say that I the
son of man am what he asking them say
who are people saying who are they say I
am some say
you John the Baptist some say you uh
Isaiah others say you're Jeremiah just
one of the prophets now those were great
men in that time that he that question
was asked those was great men those were
men that I would if somebody say who are
you and somebody give me a label like
that I'm Sak my chest out but Jesus did
not Jesus says well he knew he was he
weren't those men he was nothing like
those men so he asked his students say
well who do you say that I am Simon
Peter said thou the Christ the son of
the Living God see Simon Peter knew who
he was you are the Christ you are the
pro you are the you were the one that
Isaiah and all the prophets have
prophesied about coming to bring
Salvation to men you are the Christ the
son of the Living God he said blessed
are thy by Jonah for Flesh and Blood
have not revealed to you you didn't get
that from a man that didn't come from
the mind of a man Flesh and Blood didn't
reveal that to you but my Father which
is in heaven I say also unto you to th
Peter and upon for the foundation of
that statement that I am the Christ I
will build my church and I read that to
this man and he said to me he said now I
want you to answer this question for me
tell me do you if you take a notes you
can do this with your friends you can do
this very same thing with your friend
cuz it's the first gospel someone I ever
heard of my life when he finished and
and I didn't realize what he was doing
he says now I want you to tell me do you
think Jesus when he said that was
lying and I'm thinking that what is he
ask me this he said do you think Jesus
was lying about what he said he says I
will build my church and if he will do
it that means he haven't done it
yet somewhere in the future he's going
to build a church so in my mind I'm
thinking thinking uh he's going to take
a hammer a nail and build a
billing because that's what my idea my
view of church
was he says
uh do you believe he was telling the
truth I said yeah he had to be telling
the truth he said now tell me this if
you and I today could find that church
that he said he would build find where
he build it at and see what those people
did to get in it will you get it will
you will you do what they did I say
certainly I'll do what they did so I I I
done read the Bible been reading for 4
years it ain't
there that's what I thought anyway it's
not there how you going to do that well
if you have your document of
truth let's let's look at this
together in your documental truth in the
in the book of Acts now I want you to
know this book of Acts took place after
Jesus had been put to death why did they
kill Jesus anybody ever asked that
question and never found the answer
that's what got me on my hunt I wanted
to find what why who were the Jews and
what did they kill Jesus why did what
did he do why did they have to kill him
he couldn't have done something why did
they kill him I wanted to know well let
me give you the answering
short he was teaching the gospel saving
plan that you and I come here every
Sunday to hear he was teaching that plan
what a man need to do to reunite himself
back with god well how did he get
separated from God Disobedience when
Adam said when he told Adam in the day
you disobey me you shall surely die that
word die simply means you going to be
separated from me Adam don't disobey me
don't eat from that tree you can eat
from any tree you want to but that one
don't eat for it because when the day
you do that you're no longer going to be
a part of me spiritually you're going to
be separated from me and that's what
Adam did now where did that leave me and
you separated from God because we got
here by the will of our carnal fathers
our spiritual father has a hand in our
life when we breathe our first and the
the spirit of of God entered us we have
that Spirit it lies dormant within our
physical body we have to be it has to be
birthed into life like our physical
bodies was and we have to do that by
choice The Power of Choice is the
greatest power that any man has ever
been granted we have the power to choose
whether we want to spend eternity in
heaven with God or we we'll go our own
way and take what comes let's look at
acts two but before we look at Acts
2 I want to call your attention to uh
Jesus's out in his last day on The F on
his face of his Earth as a man Jesus is
last day on the face of this Earth he
had been raised from the dead he's in a
physical
body he's going to go back to where he
come from
that spirit world where you and I are
trying our best to get
to he's head he's going to go back there
but you remember if you a student of the
Bible he talked to these preachers he
recruited 12 preachers one of them
disobeyed him and fell away from him he
recruited 12 preachers while he was on
his mission here for three years he was
teaching the Plan of Salvation that will
reunite our spirit back to God that's
what he did but he recruited 12 men to
carry on his work after he went back to
where God was now you can read about
this now if you take a notes write down
John 15 and 16 go home and study it and
you hear Jesus talking to them men about
uh I'mma send you someone to help you I
know you ain't going to remember
everything I told you just like in this
class you're not going to remember
everything I said cuz I can say a lot
you're not going to remember it but if
you taking notes you can go home and
study it and you can recall some of the
stuff that was presented to you so he
said you're not remember everything I
say but I'm going to send you a guide
I'm going to send you a helper I'm going
send you someone that's going to guide
you into all truth so you can't make no
mistakes which we call the Holy Spirit
now before we get there now and they
watched him I want you to write this
down too uh let me see let me get it
right here so I don't I'm not guessing
now in and and and and uh well that's
another study I'm I'm not going to go
there but let let's look at uh
let's look
at well anyway here's here's the point I
can't put my he ascended back to Heaven
his Ascension into heaven is directly
connected to what Daniel saw in Daniel
7:44 where Daniel is talking about he
saw
in in in in a in a in a in a trance he
saw this he saw the son of man ascending
into heaven uh this is what he's see
right what we reading here if I can put
my put my paw on it
uh uh let me get my paw on here a minute
I don't know my mind goes blank you know
when you get old you start losing stuff
it's not always your hair
either it's your it's your memory goes
with it
uh okay
okay let's look at verse six so when
they had come together they asked him
Lord will th at this time restore the
Kingdom of Israel these Jews that he was
training for three years they thought he
was going to establish a king a kingdom
here on Earth where the Jews would be
the ruling Authority again and everybody
going to be subject to them they were
going to be the most powerful Authority
on the world that's what they thought
but Jesus didn't come to establish an
Earthly Kingdom notice what he says and
he said to them if it is not for you to
know the time or the seasons that our
father has fixed by his own authority
we're going to study Authority next next
next next month but you will receive
power you're going to get power when
when I'm going to get this power Jesus
when the Holy Ghost come upon
you and you will be you will you will be
my disciples you will be spokesman for
me you will speak for me in in in the
human realm you will be Witnesses in
Jerusalem and all Judea and Samaria and
at the ends of the Earth and when he had
said these
things they were looking on he was
lifted up and a cloud took him out of
their sight Daniel saw this 400 years
before it happen in Daniel 7:44 he saw
it when it h he saw it he saw it in a
night vision
but that's the point when he was raised
from the dead he went to these 12 men
and he said to them all power he didn't
say some
power he says all power well if you got
all power Jesus what about these people
that's going around here talking about
they got power and they can establish uh
congregations and churches and all this
he says all power is given given to me
it was given to him by God see God is
the ultimate Authority he was given to
him by God all power is given unto me
now I want you to go and teach All
Nations don't care if you're black white
green orange purple strike
psychedelic teach All Nations all
nationalities of men teach All Nations
and then once you teach them I want you
to baptize them in the name of the
father and the Son and the Holy Ghost
That by their Authority
see we're baptized by the authority of
God and that's God's Authority God
himself spoke to men in many in in many
diverse manners and miraculous ways
during the patriarchal age during the
Mosaic age he spoke to men through the
law today he speaks to us through his
holy spirit so all of them had a part in
our coming back home what was Jesus
coming here for why did he come in and
take on a human body so he can SW wet so
he can get hungry so he can see what
it's like to live as a human being one
of the reasons why he came so you can't
stand before him on Judgment Day and say
God you don't know what it's like to be
a human oh yes I do he does
understand all power not some power
nobody has any power to do anything in
relation to Eternal salvation if it's
not from God all power belongs to Jesus
go ye therefore and teach All Nations
baptizing them in the name of the son
the father and and the Holy Spirit now
if God tells
me will I'll save you and give you
eternal
life if you learn how to stand up on
your hands and walk 10 feet I'm going to
be practicing every day cuz I believe
him now if you believe God and he says
you have to be baptized you're going to
have to do that you remember
what there was a man let me see
Nicodemus in the third chapter of book
John you remember him what he had he
came to Jesus the text say he came to
him by night it don't tell us why he
came by night but he did it tells us he
came by night and he came there to talk
to Jesus he wanted to talk to Jesus he
want to understand from Jesus Jesus what
are you teaching different from
what the MOs Mosaic law teach the Mosaic
law say we are the children of God yeah
In the Flesh you are if you the sin of
Abraham your physical structure is a
child of God from that descent
but all Humanity belongs to God he want
to save it all he just don't want to
save the
Jews so what are you
teaching Jesus said to him this is John
3 if you want to check it out for
yourself Jesus said to him truly truly I
say unto you except a man be born again
he cannot see understand enter get
involved with God's business you can't
do it unless you're born again Nicodemus
is a carnal being M Nicodemus understood
how he physically got on this Earth
Nicodemus said to him how can a man be
born again when he's old I'm 40 years
old or better how can I be born again
shall I go back and reenter my mother's
woman and be born no no no Nicodemus I'm
not talking about your flesh I'm talking
about that man that's lying dormant
inside of you that was put there by the
power of God that's the being that's
dead within you he need to be brought to
life well how can I do that the spirit
says you need to go to the water you
need to get get the truck in there you
need to head to the water the spirit
says that's where you need to go once
you go there and are
baptized you arise and walk a new life
now you going to live in your spirit and
get out of your
body so here's my point that man said to
me will he will you do it if I if I tell
you how to do well if I show you where
it's done at uh will you do
it I got a few minutes I got two minutes
I'm going see I'm going to get through
this in 2 minutes all
right he said turn to Acts 2 when I got
to Acts 2 it
says when the day of Pentecost was fully
come they were all together with one
Accord in one place and suddenly there
came a sound they heard something from
Heaven it sounded like a mighty rushing
wind and it filled all the room where
they were sitting and they appeared
under them they saw something it looked
like fire he sat upon each of them and
they were all filled with the Holy Ghost
and began to speak with other tongues as
the spirit gave them mothers well what
that mean they begin to speak with other
tongues man has confused that very idea
in the religious umbrella of
Christianity he says you got to speak in
tongues but that that's not what what
what what what what the holy spirit is
telling us they begin to speak with
other tongues the men that were baptized
with this holy holy spirit that sound
that came from heaven and there appeared
under them tongues uh clothing tongues
like a fire and it set upon each of them
and they were all filled with the Holy
Spirit now these men are ready to go
into all the world and preach the gospel
because before that happened those men
were Jews they was mostly from galileia
and they only speak Galilean which is a
a very broken uh form of hebrewism he
Hebrew language or the Hebrew language
it wasn't
even you remember when Peter was at the
uh counil they were pro at at court and
they was Prosecuting Jesus and they and
somebody said hey you got to be one of
them you'll got to Lim because your your
voice betrays you now I said to myself
then you know that I that makes sense to
me because when them people come from
North I can tell them we get them down
here and we keep them down here a couple
of months we get them talking
right we tra about to talk well see he
had a different dialect so
uh this these tongues look like five set
upon each of them they was all filled
with the Holy Ghost they begin to speak
with other tongues that the spirit gave
them utterance now they can speak
languages that they don't even they've
never been taught how to speak now can
you imagine me trying to go over there
in China and teach one of those Chinese
the gospel can you imagine that can you
imagine me going to Italy and try to
teach with them Italians how to with
gospel I can barely I barely speak
English my wife tell me all the time I
met I make a mockery of the anguish
language said girl you understand what
I'm saying she said
yeah AB I've been with you for 150 years
I done figured out what that stuff you
talking
about yeah but anyway he says uh you you
go into all the world and preach the go
but how am I go I don't speak with one
language and I'm not very good at that
go into all the world and preach the
gospel I'm going send you some
help now the text tell us as we drop
down to verse 14 Acts 2 say that were
dwelling at Jerusalem Jews devout men
out of every nation under Heaven think
about this
black and white people from every nation
under Heaven they from Canada they from
France they from
Germany they from Czechoslovakia they
from Italy they all in this room and
they want to hear what I got to say they
going to have a problem cuz I don't
speak all those
language they were there was dwellers in
Mesopotamia capadia P fge of filia about
the P San strangers of of of Rome and
Italy Jews
prosites they all heard them speak in
their own
tongues when they heard this they were
pricked in their hearts these people
after they heard it Peter start
preaching a sermon there in verse 14 and
he preaches and he preaches and he tell
who Jesus is and what Jesus did while
Jesus was on this Earth and he goes all
the way and when he gets to verse 37
acts
237 when they the people that's in the
audience when they heard this they were
Tri in their hearts they believe it they
said men and
Brethren what shall we do we made
mistakes somewhere along the line back
there we done done something we done
messed up how we what shall we do verse
38 he gives the answer and this is where
the man got me he
said he said repent and be baptized
every one of you for the remission of
your sin that's how you get really you
say for said you receive the gift of the
Holy Spirit you receive knowledge to
understand God message and the Holy
Spirit will give it to you you get that
knowledge and that very day 3,000 Souls
were
baptized and when he finished that he
says will shall I call my brother and
meet him over at the church and we
baptize you today I say
yeah heard one sermon I was baptized
because see I've been searching for the
truth if you don't know the truth you
got to get people on that road to
searching for truth if they are
comfortable where where they are right
now they're not going to look they feel
they all right oh uh I I'll make it to
Heaven well I wouldn't Bank on
that if you taking notes you can go home
and study for yourself put together Your
Own Story figure out how you became a
Christian I heard one sermon one sermon
and was baptized into Christ I I can
assure you I presented more than 3,000
sermons I was able to baptized more than
one or two people but it's not in
comparison to that 3,000 that obeyed at
Jerusalem next week we're going to look
at another
clip and you're going to have to get in
class early because that clip is about
43 minutes long and we don't have about
45 minutes here so get to class early
and we're going to look at another clip
and it's going to be on Authority and
then for the following week we're going
to study what we looked at on that f
and on the 19th we're going to change
paddles and start paddling another
direction we're going to look at uh
stewardship for four weeks and then
we'll come back to way we break off at
let's pray and then you
excuse holy and righteous God who are in
heaven we thank you so much for your
revealed word we thank you for the work
of the Holy Spirit we thank you for the
sacrifices that Jesus made that allows
us we call one of your children to walk
in in harmony with your word and live in
a way that you will accept us when this
life here on Earth is over we pray that
we will develop the the will and the
desire to seek the governing
authority of your word be with us now
father as we depart from this place and
go our separate ways keep us safe and
bring us back at the next appointed time
it's in Jesus name we ask it all amen
