having children is a Divine call it's a
Divine gift every child is a gift and
every child is a surprise gift you don't
know what that child is going to be like
until the child is born it's truly a
surprise but not all surprise gifts are
great I heard of a man on Mother's Day
gave his wife an iron on Mother's Day
and and so a few days later on Father's
Day she returned the favor and gave him
an ironing board on Father's
Day having to explain a joke is kind of
like dissecting a
frog if you have to explain a joke it's
like dissecting a frog you understand it
better but the frog dies in the
process and so sometimes the the
surprise goes unnoticed and it might be
best not to explain the joke almost all
humor has an element of
surprise but not everything that is a
surprise to us is funny or humorous the
reason I bring that up is because of our
story you know the top usual qualities
of a good and godly mother are things
like uh unconditional love we know them
for that they have great empathy and
sympathy they're
intuitive women seem to know things that
they don't even have enough information
to know and they seem to know stuff that
we men don't even know they have
compassion they're great at
nurturing they are accountable so
there's many many many many great
qualities we tend to talk about top
qualities that are in the Bible but this
story is a bit of a
surprise the qualities of this lady are
not often extol and so I think it is
appropriate that we look at these there
are 10 qualities in this story this will
go faster than you think so stay with me
number
one see they're all there number one but
you might want to turn and read with me
so if you keep your Bible open the 2
Samuel chapter 20 we will read read
these again a mother in Israel was wise
it says that in verse 16 then a wise
woman so whether you think what she did
was wise or not God by inspiration said
this woman was wise then a wise woman
cried out from the city here here please
say to joab come nearby that I may speak
with you so apparently there were some
soldiers they surrounded the city
they're after this man who's escaped in
a battle and now they're willing to lay
Siege to this small city that has a wall
around it and this woman comes to the
wall and calls out for joab a mother in
Israel was wise and I think whether
other people think your wife or your
mother or your sister is wise or not the
only thing that really matters does God
consider her to be
wise it's a great quality in this text
you might not think that but God thinks
she's wise the second thing I want you
to see is a mother in Israel was humble
it says in the very next verse when he
had come near to her this is joab came
the woman said are you joab he answered
I am then she said to him hear the words
of your maid servant and he answered I
listening
she didn't say here the words of a
leading woman in this town rather she
treated herself as if she was only the
servant of this man who now has the
power to conquer the town that she lives
in I'm your maid servant it's a great
attitude to have is to always be humble
always assume that it would be better to
lower yourself than to lift yourself up
sometimes we can't help it sometimes we
just have to make sure everybody knows
that we did really good and it might be
good for us to back off of that just a
little bit and take on the form of a
servant a maid servant in this text the
third lesson is a mother in Israel was
consilio it says in verse 18 continue
reading so she spoke saying they used to
talk in former times saying they shall
surely seek guidance at Abel and so they
would end dispute so in this part of the
country what she's saying is this part
of the country was known for wisdom and
that if people were in dispute you could
come to this part of the country there
were people here that were wise and knew
how to end disputes folks being a
peacemaker is a great skill not
everybody's got that skill some people
are too hot-headed some people can't
handle too different opinions some
people think well one's got to be right
and the other one's got to be wrong and
that's just the way it's got to be
but if if you're a wise person and
consilio sometimes you can see fault
even in the right path and maybe that's
what we all need to learn to do is to
see fault even in the right path because
humans are involved and not get too
proud of your path consiliary ending
disputes a great quality the next is a
mother in Israel was Peaceable it says
in verse 19 I am among on the Peaceable
and faithful in Israel you seek to
destroy a city and a mother in Israel I
think folks if we're not Peaceable who
is who
is you know anybody can punch somebody
in the
nose and get beat up for it but being
Peaceable amen keeping your
cool not blowing up not telling
everybody
off right it's harder than you think
especially when you're
upset but she was a she claimed to be a
peaceful woman I think she was she
brought peace here it goes on to say a
mother in Israel was also faithful
because she says I am among the peaceful
and faithful in Israel what does that
mean that means she believed so what
she's saying is is I believe the stuff
you believe now if we're Brethren right
and you believe the stuff I believe and
I believe the stuff you believe
shouldn't that mean that I give you a
little room to be wrong and you give me
a little room to be wrong and shouldn't
we be able to negotiate a problem I
think that's the message of 1
Corinthians 6 isn't it not going to law
with Brethren but sorting things out
before the Brethren so if you're really
faithful we ought to be able to work
things out shouldn't we whatever the
problem is
she was that sort of woman and she was a
mother in Israel not only that but
number six a mother in Israel was
protective she says uh she goes on to
say you seek to destroy a city you going
to destroy this little town and a mother
in Israel why would you swallow up the
inheritance of the Lord so she's not
just defending herself she is defending
herself but she's not just offending
herself it's a town how big was it I
don't know I I got no idea it doesn't
say in the text 50 people 100 people a
thousand people I got no knowledge
there's nothing in the text that tells
me I couldn't tell you maybe 5,000
people I doubt it but I'd say it's in
the hundreds
probably and so something that a army
could easily dispatch
you know it doesn't take long to kill a
couple hundred people if you don't have
weapons and they do I tell you it
doesn't take long why so she's
protecting them all now whether you you
accept this or not uh it is true that
maybe women have saved more lives than
men
have I know men fight Wars but maybe
it's women that keeps us from fighting
Wars you know have you thought about it
talking to their
men you know it's one reason I think the
president of United States need to be
married and everybody up there needs to
be married sometimes they go home and
their wives talk sense in them don't get
mad calm down wouldn't be a bad idea
right number next a mother in Israel was
loyal look how loyal she is to the
issues of the king she's loyal to the
king verse 20 and 21 and joab answered
and said far be it from me uh far be it
from me that I should swallow up or
destroy I'm not here to do that kind of
thing I'm not just trying to kill good
people that is not so but a man from the
mountain of Ephraim uh Sheba the son of
barai by name has raised his hand
against the king against David so you're
either with the country or you're not
you're either with the king or you're
not deliver him only and I will depart
from the city could open the gate stick
him out throw a rope over the wall let
him climb out I'll take care of him
that's it all you got to do is deliver
him what what if there's people in this
town that believe he's
right I'm not worried about that deliver
the man we'll take care of him that's
all it's all I
expect so I think it's important to see
how loyal she is she's willing to do
whatever it takes to keep unity in the
Kingdom Unity is really important it
isn't the most important thing I've got
a lesson coming on this very Point
sometimes Unity is the worst thing that
can
happen we don't talk about that very
much but it's essential actually in a
world that has fallen division is a good
thing if you don't believe it go to the
Tower of
Bible if you don't believe it remember
the Reformation
movement getting out of
Catholicism yeah if you don't believe it
talk to your wife sometime division can
be a good
thing so but loyalty is a good thing too
so a mother in
Israel Not only was loyal but the very
next verse or in that same verse she was
decisive verse 21
that is not so but a man from the
mountains of Ephraim sa by the son of
berai by name has raised his hand
against the king against the David
deliver him only and I will depart from
the city so the woman said to joab
watch I like that
watch you got any doubts whether we're
on David's side or not watch I love that
just watch what's fixing to happen and
the mother in Israel was
fierce and I believe a woman that's
really cares about her family and her
people is as Fierce as a
man she's Fierce look how Fierce she
is deliver him only and I will depart
from the city so the woman said to joab
watch his head will be thrown to you
over the wall now the significance of
that is
critical they could have lowered him
down over over the wall they could have
thrown him over the wall they could have
opened the gate and pushed him out they
could have invited joab through the gate
they could have done it a hundred
different ways probably no you need to
know there's no one in this city that is
against the king you need to know how
serious we are about not being your
enemy we know you could kill us all
his head will come over the
wall
okay I'm scared of a woman who's willing
to do
that but I think women we need you to be
that
Fierce men you need to be that Fierce
about what really matters it sounds
horendous but it's critical last point a
mother in Israel was influential it says
in verse 22 then the woman in her wisdom
went to all the
people so she talked to them see she'd
been talking by herself she had not
talked to the people yet
right but she' already said this going
to happen so did she know she had
influence yeah so guess what she was
already respected this wasn't something
that suddenly she was respected this
woman was respected before this
conversation ever took place this woman
had influence before she ever said a
word about this that's amazing and look
what it says and they cut off the head
of Sheba the son of berai and threw it
out to
joab there it is she was influential now
let me ask you a question is it possible
that Sheba the son of beriah
or however you say it is it possible
that he had friends in that town that
that's the reason he went there is it
possible it was his
hometown is it possible there was
several people in there really liked
him
yeah guess what there was no question as
to whether or not the town was on joab's
side though when it got through hey so
guess what there had to be enough
influence that would override anybody
that would dare opposed the influence
she's going
with that's saying something anyway then
he blew a trumpet and they withdrew from
the city every man to his tent so joab
returned to the king at Jerusalem so
what's the message of all this what do
all that teaches okay not to go out and
cut folks heads off that's not what it
teaches maybe we need to see the
qualities of a mother in Israel because
they are surprising maybe on a day where
we talk about all the flowers and the
cutesy stuff and all of that and
everybody's getting their picture made
and everybody's thinking it's all just a
wonderful sweetie give Mom a hug kind of
day that that that is an all that makes
a good
woman and maybe we we live in a world
now where we've forgotten that there are
other qualities of a woman that are
actually surprising that are actually
really good qualities that are in the
text that God respected these rarely
spoken of qualities on a Mother's Day
how dare you speak about this on
Mother's Day oh no no this is when you
need to hear it because you don't hear
it any other time you could get away
with it today and you can't cut my head
off so today is the day to talk about it
not only that but biblical Mother's new
adversity and reality and listen to this
reality is rarely a fairy tale
and it's rarely
sweet and it's rarely
easy there was a woman named
Eve the first
mother whose one
child killed her other
child that's
reality there was a woman named
Rebecca who struggle with
favoritism her son Jacob she cared about
far more than her son called
Esau that's
reality there was a woman named
jocked who gave up her son Moses to save
his
life you see it's
okay to not be the image of the modern
perfect
mother that's okay
just because the culture tells you what
a good mother
is lean on this one not on that one out
there cuz this was telling you the truth
that one out there tell you stuff oh no
a mother would never do such things as
this not a good mother but God
disagrees a good mother did do
this it's okay to not be the perfect
image of Mom that our world says that's
the perfect image it's okay by the way
it's okay to be
you you hear
me
ladies it's okay to be
you nobody else has been working with
you like God has God's been working on
you for a long time it's okay to be you
as imperfect as you are and by the way
you are I know your husband would never
tell you that but you are imperfect my
wife isn't but I know y'all's wives
imperfect but it's okay it's okay to uh
not do everything the way I would do it
or my wife would do it or this man's
wife would do it it's okay it's okay to
have hard situations within the family
that are difficult to deal with it's
okay to be like Eve when one kid hates
another kid doesn't mean that Eve failed
it's okay to be like Rebecca and think
one child is doing better than another
child it's okay that's not the end of
the world if that happens it's okay to
be jocked and maybe even have to give up
your child well I could never give up my
child you know well you might not have
been single and had a baby out of
wedlock you might need to do that it's
okay to not do what everybody else
thinks you ought to do it's okay so it's
okay to be biblical and be a mom that's
beloved by God and has these qualities
let me back up just for a second so
you'll see those qualities again whether
or not we see them and I suspect most
the people if you read this to the
people of the world they'd be a gas it's
kind of like that passage where give me
a sword and I'll cut the baby into and
then whoever doesn't want the baby to
die you know who would ever do such a
thing I know a lot of things in the
Bible set people's teeth on edge but let
me tell you something the Bible is true
and God does all things well and this
was a wise woman she was a humble woman
she was consilio she was these qualities
and I'm telling you what there's not
anybody that can judge you but the Lord
God so if you're not right with God be
concerned but not right with the culture
or not right with some of your family
that's not the
issue that's always going to be the case
so if there's someone here tonight that
needs get right with God we want to
encourage you to do that if you need to
repent of your sins confess the name of
Christ and be baptized we'll help you in
that process you need to come back to
the Lord you may just need prayer I mean
maybe stuff's going on in your
family or you're taking hits left and
right because you're trying to do the
right thing we'll pray with you if you
need to come though come while we stand
and while we sing
