heard of this lady who was uh in like
this group where they studied uh first
aid and so uh I guess they're like first
aid workers and they had like a I don't
know what you would call it a sorority
of it or something and so they studied
first aid great deal and uh so they were
having a meeting and she showed up at
this meeting and she wanted to testify
about her experience with first aid she
says you know first aid you may think
it's not that important to you people
out there who are studying this right
now but it's incredibly important for
example just the other day uh just this
week I saw a horrific accident car was
flipped upside down I went over to the
car and there was a man inside and he
was cut up badly bleeding really bad and
his head was bleeding and um I want you
to know that if if I hadn't remembered
my first aid I wouldn't have been able
to put my head between my legs to keep
myself from passing
out so it's really helpful I'm afraid
that's what happens too often when we do
some of the things we study is that uh
we only see it from the perspective of
what it does for us and I hope you see
study of loving your brethren a little
broader than that along for the day all
my brethren are my
friends and I am their friend now that
sounds strange doesn't isn't it to say
that but I really do I long for the day
that all my brethren are my friends and
I am their friend I don't know if you've
ever heard of him but he's actually
quite well known in certain circles his
name is Fred
Shuttlesworth Fred Shuttlesworth born in
22 and died in 2011 is a Baptist
preacher in Birmingham Alabama so I'm
may be more familiar than you might be
he's a Baptist preacher in Birmingham
Alabama in the 1950s he's called by
historians like and Dre manace quote one
of the least known but most impactful
figures in the Civil Rights
Movement what you may not know about him
is that by his own estimations he was
arrested between 30 and 40 times for
protesting during the Civil Rights
Movement his house was bombed with his
whole family in it one Christmas Eve
night his church was subjected to three
different
bombings on September the night or at
least attempted bombings on September
the 9th 1957 you may remember President
Eisenhower Eisenhower signed the Civil
Rights Act and lawyers immediately
sought injunction relief to force
Arkansas to
integrate um Central High in Little Rock
Arkansas on that very day
Shuttlesworth decided he would do
something in Birmingham he organized the
integration of Phillips High School inm
Birmingham and driving he drove over his
two children to the school to enroll
them in Philips High School there in
Birmingham he was met with a white
mob um they beat him with baseball bats
chains and brass knuckles he began to
lose Consciousness because of that and
he was about to just say you know I'm
done and suddenly he account that
something he didn't say what but
something said to him you can't die here
get up I have a job for you to
do and so in the hospital later he was
interviewed by a reporter newspaper
reporter uh and so Shuttlesworth was
asked what are you working for here in
Birmingham what are you trying to
accomplish this is what he responded I
love this
quote what are you trying to accomplish
Mr shuttles
quote for the day when the man who beat
me and my family with chains at Philips
High School can sit down with us as a
friend just want to have a
friend a't that what we all want and
that's what you want from your brethren
right just to have a friend those under
the same Covenant which you and I are
are in a Brotherhood whether we know it
or not Amos 1:9 says thus says the Lord
for three transgressions of TI he's he's
about to curse Ty for three
transgressions of Ty that's a city North
of Israel and for four I will not turn
away its punishment because they
delivered up the whole captivity to Edom
and did not remember the Covenant of
Brotherhood and he su suggesting that
just because they live next door to each
other even though they weren't of the
same religious beliefs there was a
Brotherhood that they had I think that's
right but you know there's a such thing
as false Brethren Paul talks about that
in second Corinthians 11 1 Peter 5 and
ver9 says the same sufferings are
experienced by your Brotherhood believe
it or not the troubles you go through
are experienced by other people here I
not exactly the same thing but basically
Ally the same stuff in 1 Peter 2:1 17 it
says love the
Brotherhood not not just the people
within it but the concept of
it those in our
Brotherhood those in our
Brotherhood must love our Brethren if
you're in the Brotherhood you're
compelled it's a must you love the
Brotherhood that that means you love the
relationship and the cont concept and
the Covenant that binds us but it also
means you love the individuals you love
the Brotherhood John 13:34 and 35 says
this a new commandment I give to you
that you love one another this is the
the newness in it as I have loved you
because that was the new part they were
already commanded to love each other but
love one another as I have loved you
that you also love one another and then
verse 35 by this all will know that you
are my disciples if you have love for
one another the world knows we're
Christians by our love right in Romans
12: 9-10 it says this let love be
without hypocrisy don't fake it don't
pretend to love somebody that you don't
care for let love be without hypocrisy
be kindly affectionate to one another
with Brotherly Love in honor giving
preference to one another so instead of
you got to get what you want first give
them what they want first Ephesians 6
and verse 23 peace to the Brethren and
love that's part of our responsibility
to give them peace and love Hebrews 13:1
let Brotherly Love continue so
apparently the suggestion is you can let
it stop or you can cause it to stop
James 4:11 sayso not speak evil of one
another Brethren he who speaks evil of a
brother and judges his brother speaks
evil of the law and judges the law you
make yourself above him and you make
yourself Above the Law itself but if you
judge the law you're not a doer of the
law but a judge you put yourself in a
position you don't have a right to be in
1 Peter 3 and ver8 finally all of you be
of one mind and having compassion for
one another love as brothers be
tenderhearted be courteous all good
things to do with everybody 1 Peter 1:22
says in sincere love of the Brethren
love one another fervently with a pure
heart so don't fake it be real love one
another when you're trying to find a
really good definition of love it's
really difficult to find a great
definition out there because most of the
world didn't think the way we do but I I
I heard of really good definition of
Brotherly Love of a story I didn't know
and the story comes from Dwight El Moody
but it's not Dwight and El Moody story
he's just the one that was reporting on
this and i' never heard this story it's
actually a Jewish traditional story that
i' never heard before until just
recently now shocks S H O C KS we we
used to call them something else you
know sheaves are while they bind wheat
together so when I'm telling you this
story and you read hear me use that word
s h o c k s that's what they're talking
about okay and it goes directly to
something that happened according to
traditional history among the Jews and
it's quite
interesting and it says it comes from
the time before Solomon's Temple so it's
an old story The Story Goes Like This
the land on which the temple was built
was occupied by Two Brothers this must
be about the time of Uriah
I mean and so um the land being occupied
there his two brothers they raised wheat
on it one had a family and the other one
was UN unmarried there two brothers one
little older than the other he had a
family and the younger brother did not
one evening after harvesting the wheat
and they' gathered these into these
shocks right into these sheaves and they
were in their separate homes the elder
brother was talking to his wife and he
says to his wife you know my my younger
brother is unable to Bear the burden of
the heat of the day he didn't have a
family he didn't have any support I will
arise and put my shots with his he won't
even know it and I want to bless him the
younger brother was that very night was
sitting in his house thinking you know
my brother has a
family in Greater needs than I do has a
wife has
children I'm going to get up and I'm
going to put my shots with
his and as they met they literally say
they met in the night in the middle of
the night where the temple was
built and they saw each other brotherly
love the one trying to do for the other
Brotherly Love is where the temple was
erected that's an interesting story
ain't it brotherly love it's almost the
foundation of the concept of worship
isin't that interesting we must love all
the brethren
for Jesus is our
brother now we don't talk about him like
that very often but it is
true he is our brother our elder brother
but he is our brother listen to him
speak Matthew 25:40 in as much as you
did it to one of the least of these my
brethren you did it to
me how about this one Matthew 28:10
Jesus said tell my brethren to go to
Galilee and there they will see me is
after his resurrection in John 20:1 17
Jesus said go to my brethren and say to
them I am ascending to my father and
your father and to my God and your God
after his
Resurrection tell my bre Hebrews 2
supports that idea just in case you're
questioning he's be he's our Brethren
listen to how Hebrews talks about this
concept verse 11 for both he who
sanctifies and those who are being
Sanctified are all one that means you're
one with Jesus we're one with him he's
one with us now listen to the rest of
that so we're all of one for which
reason he is not ashamed to call them
Brethren saying I will declare your name
to my brethren in the midst of the
assembly I will sing praise to you Jesus
will join us in heaven singing Praise to
the father now isn't that a shocker you
don't think about that do you in 1 John
4: 20 and 21 it says if someone says I
love God and hates his brother he is a
liar for he who does not love his
brother whom he has seen how can he love
God whom he has not seen and this
commandment we have from him that he who
loves God must love his brothers also
and that's significant because if you
don't love your brother you don't love
Jesus did you get the message he's our
brother so if you don't love your
brother you don't love Jesus which means
you don't love God so even and this may
not be clear we don't talk about this
very often but it is true the angels in
heaven according to Revelation 22: 8
and9 are our
Brethren they are
brothers you don't think of them that
way but that's what they are and we're
in a covenant with them so let us love
and call each other Brethren the reason
Brethren is used
398 times in the New Testament my
brethren is used 34 times and my beloved
Brethren is used four times where to
love the Brethren I'm going to give you
three simple points so that that's the
complicated aspect of this whole thing I
want to give you three very
straightforward points tonight okay
number
one the love of your brethren manifest
or shows forth that you are
righteous that's
right you want proof that you're
righteous look in your heart in the way
you love your brethren 1 John 2 veres
10-13 in this the children of God and
the children of the devil are manifest
so we we know who the children of the
devil are too they don't love their
Brethren you follow that we talked about
you know the devil having uh seed in
this the children of God and the
children of the devil are manifest
whoever does not practice righteousness
is not of God nor is he who does not
love his brother so the one who loves
his brother practices righteousness the
one who practice righteousness loves his
Brethren verse 11 for this is the
message that you heard from the
beginning that we should love one
another not as Cain who was of the
wicked one and murdered his brother and
why did he murder him because his Works
were evil and his brothers righteous
jealous verse 13 do not Marvel my
brethren if the world hates you don't be
surprised the world hates you you should
expect that but be shocked if your
brother doesn't love you so the love of
your brethren manifests that you're are
righteous if you love all these people
here that's a sign that you are a
righteous individual that's a great
little truth you like to W wear that on
the way home tonight you're righteous
that's a good feeling ought to pay
attention number two the love of your
brethren manifests or shows forth that
you have life that means you have
eternal life listen 1 John 3: 14- 15 we
know that we have passed from Death to
life I know it appears that we die well
we do from this perspective but we
really don't we go straight into life we
pass from Death to life because we love
the Brethren you already have eternal
life that's hard to imagine since we
know we all going to die in this world
because we love the Brethren you passed
from Death to life we know because we
love the Brethren he who does not love
his brother abides in death whoever
hates his brother is a murderer and you
know that no murderer has eternal life
abiding in him so how what's of the
great truths that's manifest by your
love for this group and the people in
this
church you know you're going to
heaven that's pretty big is it so you
know you're righteous and you know to go
to heaven if you love everybody here
think about that just a second that's
that's not that hard to do then is it
think right you want to make sure you're
going to heaven uh love your brethren
number
three the love of your brethren
manifests the that you love God that's
right 1 John 3: 16-18 by this we know
love I mean this is how we know what it
is because he laid down his life for us
that's what love really does right if
you say you love your family and you're
not willing to give up stuff for them
you don't love your family you don't
love anybody that you're not willing to
give stuff up for you're not willing to
give up part of your life part of your
time you don't love them you just say
you do you don't love anybody you're not
willing to give up time for that's just
the way it is
by this we know love this is how we
Define what love is because he laid down
his life for us and we also ought to lay
down our lives for the Brethren so you
can't say that you love your brethren if
you're never willing to do it their
way
wow it's always me me me me me me no no
no no that's not love except for you you
love you all right but he but whoever
has this world's Goods and sees his
brother in need and shuts up his heart
from him how does the love of God abide
in him so you don't love God if you're
not there for your brethren but if you
love Brethren that proves that you love
God and he goes on in verse 12 my little
children let us not love in word or in
tongue but in deed in truth lest really
show it let's let's be the people that
it's clear that we love God because the
way we treat our brethren that's this is
really simple stuff except it's just
really hard sometimes right it's just
really hard sometimes right but you got
to do it anyway right right this is been
just okay so love of your brethren
manifest three ways look at this it's
real
simple in other words when you love your
brethren that's evident that you're a
righteous
person if you don't love your brethren
you're you're
not no matter what you
say number two if you love your brethren
it manifests that you have life or
eternal life abiding in
you you don't love your brethren you
don't have eternal life in you that's
just all there is to it no such thing
you can't pick and
choose and then if you love your
brethren we all know you love God how do
I know you love God because you're so
good to each other if you can't be good
to each
other we're worried about your
soul right that's just the way it is you
got to love God and if you're not going
to love God you got to love your brother
so there are many great quotes I believe
throughout history about Brotherhood
that I let me just read you a few here
that I thought were quite interesting
this is from an ancient Hindu proverb it
goes this way help your brother's boat
across and your own will reach the shore
if you help your brother's boat
across your own boat will reach it
Shore ties said he's a Greek philosopher
pupil of Socrates he says when Brothers
agree no Fortress is so strong as their
common
life wow I like that nobody can take
them down because even if you lose they
won Matthew uh no let me get this other
one Abu Barack I think that's what he
say it he is the first khif he said God
blesses him who helps his
brother Matthew Henry a great probably
some of y'all have his commentaries said
Brotherly Love is still the
distinguishing Badge of every true
Christian if you're a real Christian we
know it by the way you treat the people
at
church John Baptist and I can't
pronounce his last name says a brother
is a friend given by
Nature that's a good friend and then the
Greek philosopher I love Anonymous he
said I love that nobody thinks that's
funny but me one good brother will
always be better than a thousand
friends and I think that's true but all
those quotes are really neat but the
best one is from the Lord Jesus we also
ought to lay down our Liv for the
Brethren that's
big I'm afraid we too often want I want
you to lay down your life for
me and said to me lay down my life for
you y'all remember SEAL Team
Six SEAL Team Six took out Osama Bin
Laden that's not something necessarily
to talk too much about it is what it is
nine months after Seal Team 6 took out
Osama Bin Laden they had another
dramatic uh rescue mission that wasn't
quite as big but probably many of you
know about it Jessica Buchanan she was
an American Aid
worker and she had been taken by Somali
P Pirates
and in response to her plot there were
two dozen
seals two dozen seals parachuted into
Southern Somalia and made their way to
where she was being kept and at night
apparently they killed all nine heavily
armed Somalian
kidnappers and liberated beanan and the
second Aid worker and not one of the
Americans were harmed
all of that without a casualty is
amazing within itself it's a heroic act
and but in the final moments of this
rescue is what Jessica Buchanan wrote
about not that this is what she wrote
about when she wrote about it about the
character and the culture of the seal
Brotherhood this is Jessica's own words
she said at one point
this group of men who've risked their
lives for me already asked me to lie
down on the
ground because they're concern there
might be more armed Terrors terrorists
out there they make a circle around
me and they lie on top of me to protect
me anybody that's going to get shot it's
going to be
them and we lie like that until the
helicopters come in
and then they get out
safely to the world that's extraordinary
to the world that's them being willing
to die to help somebody but to the Navy
Seals it's just another
Thursday I just wish that was the way we
felt that you matter more than my life
and that if it took it I would be
willing to go for
you because just another
Thursday whatever it
takes and it that's they did that
because that's who they
became so if you don't feel that way
right now don't think that's Out Of
Reach they became that
they weren't that when they were kids
they didn't feel that way for each other
when they didn't know each
other but you can go there you can get
there and if you don't love everybody
here maybe at this moment it doesn't
mean you can't get there and it doesn't
mean that we shouldn't try to get there
for each other we Believers are to be as
dedicated to one another and willing to
as Jesus said 1 John 3:16 willing to lay
down our lives for the
Brethren so let's love our brothers and
our sisters and let's start with the
love we should have for our elder
brother love the Lord Jesus because he
is so humble he's willing to say you're
my brethren and I love you and I'm going
to the cross for you he laid down his
life for his
brothers and we learn to follow suit
that's the love of the Brethren if
you're here tonight you need to give
your life to the Lord great place to
start is to love the Lord Jesus and then
learn how to love your brethren
