now some would say that they want
Unity but they don't want to pay the
price for
Unity it's kind of like uh do y'all
remember the Long Ranger some of y'all
remember the Long
Ranger well Tonto was the name of the
Indian guy and the Long Ranger I guess
that was his name uh but I think he
called him kimosabi which I don't know
what that means but Tanto and the Long
Ranger were riding through a Canyon one
day and all of a sudden they looked up
and both sides of the canyon were filled
with tribal warriors on horses dressed
for
battle and the Long Ranger turned to
Tanto and says what are we going to do
Tonto Tanto replied what do you mean we
white
men so sometimes you can claim you want
Unity but not be willing to pay the
price for
it the distinctive plea of the Churches
of Christ is Unity it has been all along
but it truly is and what we've been
talking about here in this series and
that is that we need to be United and
today I just want to talk a few minutes
about we need to be United by the goal
this is the last one in this series and
I'd like to tell you that I saved the
best for last but that happened several
weeks ago so you just up what you got
the goal is
Unity uh Jesus prayed for it John 17 and
Paul certainly pleaded for it and we've
read it over and over again you know you
know Unity can happen in ways that don't
give you what you
want you can you can have a Unity by
freezing everything you can freeze
things together do you know that I mean
you can get it cold enough and matter
what it is it'll stick together uh but
if it's that cold gener generally
speaking it's not moving and it's
dead H so you can make things United in
a cold
environment so just because everything's
United doesn't mean it's what it ought
to be there's another way you can make
Unity you can make things so hot that
everything
unites you can make things so hot that
it melts together almost everything will
melt you know that right everything will
melt and mold together
but in that situation everything's so
hot that nothing's alive so you can have
it so cold that everything's not moving
everything's dead or you can have it so
hot that nothing's
alive the unity can happen with
everything staying alive and the way
that happens is
humility you can have various views you
can have different ways of thinking you
can still be alive and show
consideration for other people people's
thinking that's the message of Romans
14 that's the message of 1 Corinthians
chapter
8 that's the message of 1 Corinthians
chapter
10 you should read those chapters
they'll teach you a lot about what
unities really like in our world
division is the enemy of Godly
fellowship and it's the enemy of someone
we're the enemy of and that's evil
tyranny so while it's a bad thing it's
actually been a friend because the world
has
fallen but the Lord God Almighty our
Holy Father actually seems to have
bigger plans than we do we tend to think
about the end of the month can I make it
to the end of the month we tend to think
about what I'm going to do
today we tend to think about how
everything affects me we don't see
things in the broader picture see we we
serve not only an infinite God we serve
a God that knows everything and time is
not a significant issue with him so he
has a bigger idea in mind than we do we
tend to think rather small so here's
kind of where he's going with his ideas
of unity he wants us to see numbers 11
verse 211 long ago in the law he swore
and this is a swear God can swear it's
not a sin for God to swear he sworn
several times in the scriptures when he
says as I live that is he's swearing by
himself as I live look at this word all
not some all the Earth shall be filled
with the glory of the Lord that's going
to
happen it's going to happen Isaiah 45
verses 22 and 23 look to me and be saved
all not some but all you ends of the
Earth that means every place there is a
place called Earth for I am God and
there is no other I have sworn by myself
I probably needed to probably mention it
again because some of you didn't like
that fact that God swears I have sworn
by myself the word is gone out of my
mouth in righteousness and shall not
return that to me every not some not
part not a few every knee shall bow
that's yours by the way I don't care
what your attitude is
today I don't care who you think you
are your knee is going to Bow every knee
shall bow and every tongue that's yours
by the way even if you refuse to sing in
this service even if you refuse to Bow
your head in prayer let me tell you
something your mouth's going to move
that day every tongue shall take an oath
in Acts chap 3 and: 21 showing you the
bigger picture whom Heaven Must receive
until the times of restoration of some
things no that's not what it says until
the times of restoration of most things
no that's not what it says until the
times of restoration of all things God's
got a bigger picture in mind the
restoration of all things which God has
spoken by the mouth of all not some not
part but all his holy prophets since the
world began this a't may be part of what
the scriptures teach this is the core of
what the scriptures teach Romans chapter
8 beginning verse 19 for the earnest
expectation of the creation eagerly
waits for the revealing of the sons of
God made reference to that a while ago
verse 20 for the creation was subjected
to futility not willingly but because of
him who subjected it in hope God allowed
this to to disintegrate he knew where it
was going was because he knew where it
was going verse 21 because the creation
itself also will be delivered will be
the creation itself will also be
delivered from the bondage of corruption
into the Glorious Liberty of the
children of God that's a big statement
verse 22 for we know that the whole
creation groans and labors with birth
pains together until now that means the
star that's furthest away this morning
groans verse 23 not only that but we
also who have the first fruits of the
spirit even we also grown within
ourselves eagerly waiting for the
adoption the Redemption of our body amen
and amen Romans 11:1 15 if there being
Cast Away is the
reconciling of the world listen to that
if talking about the Jews if they're
being cast away is the
reconciling of the world that's a big
place it's a lot of people what will
their acceptance be but life from the
death talking about the resurrection 2
Corinthians 5: 19 God was in Christ
reconciling the world that's a lot of
people to himself not imputing their
trespasses to them Colossians 1:20 read
a moment ago by him to reconcile notice
the word all to reconcile all things to
himself by him where the things on Earth
are things in heaven having made peace
he has done the work to make it
possible the distinctive play of the
Churches of Christ is let us be United
by the goal what is the goal want to
look at five of those goals that is
God's goal not was my goal and my goal
is get to the end of the month
my goal was to have a good day my goal
was to have a family be friendly things
like that he had five foundational
fundamental goals that we want to just
look at briefly okay number
one let us be United by the goal of the
one Gathering oh yeah this is his plan
Ephesians chapter 1 beginning verse 10
that in the dispensation of the fullness
of times it's not time yet it's not time
yet that in the dispensation of the
fullest of times he might gather
together in one all things in Christ
both thing both which are in heaven and
which are on earth in him in him also we
have obtained an inheritance being
predestined according to the purpose of
him who works all not some all things
according to the Council of whose will
our will no his will this is going to
happen there will be
one gathering
together and let us be United
secondly in our understanding of the
goal of god let's be United by The One
goal of one man Ephesians chapter 2
beginning in verse 14 for he himself is
our peace who has made both one now in
this text what he's talking about is the
Jews the people of God and the rest of
the world that's you and me that's where
most of us came from and that was made
up of many nations many tongues many
races people from all over the world
with crazy ideas most of our ancestors
were crazy you know they believ in
anything and everything they worshiped
stumps and rocks right that's what most
of our ancestors did let's just be real
honest here that's where we come from we
thought our ancestors could save us okay
so that's where we came from and so
there were Jews who were like the light
on the hill and they were trying to
follow the one God and then there the
rest of us thinking we knew everything
and we were the
craz okay that's our
history he said for himself is our peace
who that's Jesus is our peace who has
made both one that is Jew and Gentiles
are the nation
and has broken down the middle Wall of
Separation verse 15 having abolished in
his flesh the enmity that is the thing
that caused the division what is that
that is the law of Commandments
contained in ordinances in other words
laws that created sin basically so as to
create in himself one new man from the
two thus Making Peace this idea of race
this idea of nationality this idea of
your country this idea of everything
dividing Us in the Kingdom means nothing
means nothing we're all
one number
three look at this big goal God had let
us be United by the goal of one
body we enjoyed it a moment ago Lord
supper one body Ephesians
2:16 and that he might reconcile both to
God in one
body through the cross thereby putting
to death the
enmity the one body the body of
Believers ain't that a wonderful thing
that we all United I mean we all took
the Lord's Supper a moment ago if you
didn't you need to learn that you should
but okay we all took the Lord's Supper a
moment ago what that when what's a
symbol of it's It's a symbol of just
that one body one blood it is a
communion is it a
participation we are one body and it
doesn't mean that just this church is
one body it means all the Believers
throughout the whole world no matter
what time zone they're in even if it's
already Monday with them right now we're
one we're one with them one body that's
a wonderful concept that's a big big
idea isn't it it's a lot bigger than I
just got to get to the end of the month
or what I'm going to eat for
lunch number
next did I flip it I don't think I did
there we go let us be United by the goal
of one theology now what's interesting
about this one theology is the one
theology is full of
ones the one theology that binds us all
together is just full of ones there
should be a message in that shouldn't
there
and there a message in a theology that's
just full of
ones you think God was trying to tell us
something I think maybe he was it says
in Ephesians 4 beginning in verse 4
there is
one body this is our theology they're
not two bodies they're not two bodies of
Believers I don't care what they say
about denominations and all these sects
and everything else there is only one
body and if you're saved you're a part
of it amen that's just all there is to
it and we need to understand that there
is one body and there is one Spirit how
many Holy Spirits are there there's only
one spirit and if you if you got the
Holy Spirit you got the same spirit I
got I got the same Spirit you got
there's no such thing as big Christians
little Christians we're all filled with
the same spirit amen amen amen walls you
know better than I am and I'm know
better than you are
amen one spirit fills us all and yet
just as you were called with one hope of
your college where do you think you want
to go when this life's over you want to
go somewhere different than me you don't
want to go to New York do
you you don't want to go travel Europe
do you some folks think that's the
beginning and end of life is to travel
let me tell you there's one trip I want
to make amen I want to go to heaven amen
that's the one hope
guess how many people really hope for
that even people who believe in Nirvana
or whatever else out there they believe
the same thing basically there's one
they want to go to the good place
whatever that good place is they're
wanting to go to the good place when
it's over amen that's one hope they're
closer to us on that theology than might
think right so one hope of your calling
and then one Lord how many jesuses are
there there's only ever been one there
won't be another one he died once for
all the righteous for the unrighteous
that's it one Lord that's Jesus One
Faith Oh you mean oh that refers to all
the different Den doctrines of the
denominations of the church and all that
that were it's just one faith that is
that Jesus is it that's the faith the
rest of it is accoutrements to that
concept there is only one faith and he's
it one baptism you either got it right
or you don't that's it that's one way to
be baptized eyes and you can't do it in
dirt got to do it in water one baptism
and then listen to this and one God who
do you
serve one God and Father of some of us
know and father of all who is a above
all and he's
through
all and he's in in you
all right now
amen and has he always been I'm afraid
amen he has always been that way so
let's be by the one theology because
whether or not you want to believe it or
not nearly everybody believes
that number
next let us be United by the goal of one
one flesh this is probably the most
special part of this he dropped down
it's still in Ephesians chapter 5
dropped down to verse 31 and 32 for this
reason a man shall leave his father and
mother and be joined to his
wife and the two shall become one flesh
then he says a this is a great mystery
but I speak concerning
Christ and the church
Church what is he saying here is what
he's
saying Jesus left his father and mother
well Jesus had a father that was God he
didn't have a mother I beg your pardon
the mother of us all is
Jerusalem which is above all that's
spelled out in the book of Galatians
just in case you didn't know so our
mother his mother is the Heavenly City
and his father is God of all left his
father and his
mother and he was
joined how did he
join he became
flesh he became flesh and then he was
joined to his wife who's his wife you
are you're his
wife now let me tell you something
gentlemen you're a pretty
lady that's right every last man in here
is a
woman in this
scenario he's the man we the woman and I
gladly wear
it because that means that we've been
joined and if you're married you
understand this you truly are one flesh
that's not a make belief concept
that's that's not it's not even really
so much a sexual concept as it is a
reality you become so much alike that
it's almost impossible to tell you A
Part after a few years you start talking
the same way you say the same goofy
stuff you find the same kind of stuff
funny you know and you do the same doofy
kind of thing sometimes you're like and
you enjoy the same thing you like to go
to the same places do the same things
you think the same way you you're boat
just as crazy as the other so don't
Point your finger at the other one too
much amen by the way you picked them
right that's one
flesh we've got that with
Jesus we're one
flesh that's a big
idea forever connected
you know the distinctive play of the
Church of Christ is let us be United but
maybe we haven't thought broad enough
and big enough because if you really
take a look at this God wants one
Gathering one man one body one Theology
and one
flesh you know intervening for Unity is
a Divine work we should all be engaged
in
it but it's not always wanted
unity's not always want it that's a
strange phenomenon I mean but do y'all
know of a war going on on the
planet do you know that there are people
that are trying to settle these wars and
there's people trying to prevent you
from settling the wars isn't that a
peculiar
situation why in the world are there
Wars going on that everybody's not
against that we all want them
settled but no not everybody wants them
settled not in fact there are people who
will get into a war to prevent you from
stopping a
war there'll always be Wars we're told
by Jesus there's just and you trying to
intervene and that's a good way to get
your head taken off did you know there
have been a many a police officer going
in to rescue a woman being beaten by her
husband that have been hid in the head
with a high heill shoe and it killed
them
he's trying to save her
life and he grabs him to stop her from
being hurt and she then turns on the
police officer and kills
him not everybody that says they want
Unity want
Unity not everybody that says they want
peace wants
peace I'm a big guy I'm a well I was I
guess better put used to have the
records Marvin
Gay most of you know Marvin Gay's
story he's fatally shot by his father
Marvin Gay senior on April the 1st
1984 it was at their home in Los Angeles
over in West
Adams he shot him twice he didn't just
shoot him he shot him twice but do you
know why his father shot him maybe you
don't know that part
the reason his father shot him was not
because he's making too little
money he's doing all right doing fine he
shot him because Marvin went over there
to intervene in an altercation between
his mother and his father he's trying to
stop the
fight he was trying to create
unity and the father shot him
dead now Marvin Gay is once again in in
the midst of
division right now strange to
hear he's probably one of the most
legendary soul singers that I know of at
least in the 20th
century he produced such recordings as
let's get it
on how sweet it is to be loved by you
love that song I heard it through the
grape vine
wow Mercy Mercy
me but maybe is great as what's going
on 42 years
later never heard of recordings have
just been leaked out there's a legal
battle now the family of Charles Charles
de molan that's right you don't know him
I don't
either he lives in
Belgium in 1981 he took Marvin in what
had happened is Marvin had lived in
London for a little while and he got a
cocaine
Hammet and his friend Charles de molan
in Belgium took him in and helped him
get over his cocaine habit while he
stayed with him and he got better he
started riding again and started
recording again he recorded at their
house made several recordings they were
never released
and as a result Dean was told by Marvin
he didn't do anything with it for a long
time said do whatever you want with
it but he never came
back and so now Marvin's estate is in
illegal battle with this family who he
left the tunes with who will get it I
don't know it doesn't matter my point is
a lot of people who want Unity don't
want
Unity we live in a world
where what we should have is beautiful
music wonderful experiences everybody
should be on the same page how wonderful
it would be if there were no Wars
wouldn't it be great if you and your
wife could just not fight again wouldn't
it be great if you could just get along
with everybody Fellowship what a
wonderful concept how beautiful it could
be but Mercy Mercy Me
if we could find a way to put aside
offenses and walk together united we
might actually do what I've preached
about
today what God wants to happen one
Gathering one man one body one Theology
and one
flesh well how do we do it we start
Where We Are
Unity here in Christ in his church in
his body and with our little families
that's it I start at the base our little
families and our little
church one Gathering if you're for that
you're for the Big
Goal I'm for the Big Goal amen
