um so today's topic is we're going to be
looking at community and isolation um
we're going to start with isolation just
because I feel like Community is a
little bit more uplifting and I'd rather
end with that but um but that's what
we'll be looking at today so let's see
if my thing worked I hope it does cuz oh
no it didn't so I'm going back um so I
want start with a question
so how do we see um like in what ways do
you guys think that we can see like
social social isolation so isolating
ourselves from from the people around us
manifested um by individuals by
ourselves by um maybe a television
character that you can think of but how
do how do we see people kind of socially
isolating
themselves Co
right all right so actual like physical
location um being isolated away um any
others right just I mean in and out and
just kind of sticking solely to your
own um so here's some here's some pretty
big ways and um that we can see social
isolation manifested so right through
avoiding social
interactions um you just kind of don't
put yourself in a situation where that's
going to be be prevalent uh cancelling
plans frequently doesn't matter with who
right it could be with a new person it
could be with family it could be with um
friends uh but frequently canceling the
plans um we have Panic or anxiety with
social situations um so we can see
isolation kind of arising from this uh
social anxiety uh that might come up
whether that be social anxiety as in
standing in front of groups of people
Andor um even just going where there's
going to be groups of people um or
spending a large amount of time alone um
and that's like solely alone and that
would obviously be exuberant amounts um
so with isolation we can see that
there's an increased risk of depression
and anxiety we'll kind of look a little
bit more on that on the next slide um so
we experience this um this idea of
loneliness right so um and and we'll
kind of get into it whenever on the on
the next question that I have but uh we
can see in in people who isolate
themselves um or feel isolated from the
world this this idea of loneliness and
then that loneliness is really what kind
of leads and progresses into uh
depression and anxieties and those sorts
of things um which we have down below
right it can lead to uh psychological as
well as physical problems um so we can
see in people with an increased feeling
of loneliness and isolation from the
world or from society that they have the
increased anxiety depression suicide
risk goes up um but it can also manifest
as far as tangible physical symptoms as
well so the American Journal of
epidemiology says that social isolation
um we see higher rates of premature
mortality um so it can lead to even like
an earlier death than somebody who is
more social um and has that human
interaction and then the CDC says that
loneliness and isolation are Public
Health risks um so obviously it's
something more than just a mental but
also stems into uh the physical and like
we said think about Co right think about
how difficult it was um being separated
right just from from Neighbors from
friends from uh maybe even family um
from church um how difficult it was to
be separated from those that uh that we
care about and that we wanted to be
around which leads to the question is
all isolation bad
see head shaking now right I mean I I
think it's I think it comes and goes I
mean there's different people and
different personalities um I am more of
an extrovert I am I do my best whenever
I'm with people if I'm not with people I
can't go to Walmart by myself I mean my
wife has to go with me whenever my
brother was here he has to go with me
you know I'll I'll ask my mom if she
wants to go with me and she's about to
go to bed and she's tired and it's 10:00
at night I'm like I just don't want to
go by myself um and then there's people
who are more introverted and say you
know no I like my me time I like to be
able to wind down and and just watch a
movie by myself I have no problem with
going and grabbing a bite to eat by
myself um so not all isolation is bad
yeah but not all isolation is bad but
there is a difference between
recognizing that I'm not necessarily
energized or charged up by spending time
with other people and that depletes me
but I don't want to not do that um and
that's the important part because the
isolation that we're going to kind of
talk about and that we're going to go
down down the idea of is the isolation
of trying to withdraw ourselves from
social
interactions um and and not even
recognizing the the detriment that can
come from that uh but rather isolation
that comes from just needing some alone
time isn't necessarily A Bad Thing
um absolutely absolutely and not only
that but there's also times where you
might be doing something that that
pertains to um to yourself and doing
that right I mean a lot of those times
where we see that we see Christ um oh
for those if you weren't able to hear he
was mentioning you know there's plenty
of examples of Christ secluding himself
um and going going into to a period of
isolation um especially after big events
and and that can be very beneficial um
and and kind of along that line we see a
lot of times he goes to pray right or he
goes to to talk with God and and while
this is while we need to pray here at
church and while it's important for us
to do our family prayer and those things
um there's times where it's nice and and
it's and it's needed to pray by myself
right pray for something that I have on
my mind or that I'm thinking about or
that that I'm going through um and spin
that personal time um but then we also
see him in large Gatherings and with
people and with the disciples and stuff
so it's it's a give and take it's a
balance act um and it's it's figuring
out how to balance that and making sure
that we're not uh tipping the scales
towards isolation completely because
that can be can be painful um so let's
take a look look at some verses
regarding isolation
um going to start there Genesis
2 and verse 18 right there at the very
beginning right Genesis 2:18 should be
familiar then the Lord said it is good
for it is um then the Lord God said it
is not good for the man to be alone I
will make him a helper suitable for him
right so from the very beginning God
created man um we have Adam and then
through Adam he sees uh he needs
somebody
right there needs to be more than just
this one guy uh with however many
animals were created at the time um he
needed a helper he needed um somebody
that he could that was like him that he
could he could be around and and be with
um and then we know that he put him into
a deep sleep and thus created Eve um
let's look at
Leviticus Leviticus chap
13: 45 to 46
what this
says Leviticus 13:45 to 46 as for the
leper who has the infection his clothes
shall be torn and his hair on his head
shall be uncovered and he shall cover
his mustache and cry unclean unclean he
shall remain unclean all the days during
which he has the infection he is unclean
he shall live alone his dwelling shall
be outside the camp so we see that there
were times that maybe it wasn't even
necessarily a voluntary isolation but a
voluntold isolation um we we hear all
the time about the lepers right and and
the that was really the big the big one
back in the day was the leprosy that
would that would be around and they were
always on the outskirts they were
outside the city walls they were
basically out in the dumps um isolated
from society and uh LEP I don't know I
mean leprosy is not gone it's it still
is a disease that can be contracted
around the world um um if I'm not Mist I
think it was possums that generally
carry it's either possums or armadillos
but I think it's possums um but it's it
still is a disease that is out there
that that can be contracted now luckily
we have treatments and stuff for it but
this is not a disease that you're born
with right this is something that you
contract and then develops um so these
could have been people who were in
society and a part of society and then
contracted this and then got outcasted
from that Society not like they were
born and from their birth were outcasted
so um we can see that you know Jesus
then goes to these isolated places and
even heals some of these people and the
excitement that comes from one I mean
you're healed from this debilitating and
and eventually going to lead to death
disease but also you're now healed
socially um it it took time I'm sure but
there was a a double healing that came
when when Christ would do these things
um but as far as isolation goes we can
see even in our own lives right there
are times that we might feel that it's
more so we're being cast out than
willfully isolating um and that's not a
New Concept there are things that people
had or or did that would isolate them uh
Proverbs 18 and verse
one Proverbs 18 And1 says he who
separates himself seeks his own desire
he quarrels against all sound wisdom um
so it almost seems as though though to
completely isolate from
all almost is more of a prideful act in
that I don't need those who are around
me because my wisdom surpasses it but
then he goes on to say he quarrels
against all sound wisdom um and the
second verse a fool does not Delight in
understanding but only in revealing his
own mind right so instead of recognizing
the importance of society and community
and and Gathering together to bounce
ideas off of one another and grow and
edify one another it rather turns into
itself and says oh I already know or the
holier than thou kind of mindset um
which is seeking our own desire and
quarreling against the wisdom uh that we
shouldn't be fighting against uh looking
over in the New Testament let's go to 1
Corinthians chap 12 we'll read 12
through 14 and then skip down to verse
27 so again that's 1 Corinthians chapter
12 starting in verse 12 for even as the
body is one and yet has many members and
all of the members of the body though
they are in many are one body so also is
Christ for by one Spirit we were all
baptized into one body whether Jew or
Greek whether slave or free and we were
all made to drink of one spirit for the
body is not one member but many and then
let's skip down to verse
27 now you are Christ's bodies now you
are Christ's body and individually
members of it right so it has many
members and through the members that are
many they create the body so to isolate
ourselves we're isolating off uh
portions of the body which doesn't
really add up right if you take
away pieces and pieces and everybody
scatters and you have a head and an arm
and a leg you don't look at the leg and
say wow look at this body you look at
the leg and say wow look at this leg um
likewise in the church if we isolate
ourselves from one another or from this
place we can lead ourselves into looking
more of a disfigurement than the body of
Christ that we are that we are um so
it's important for us to recognize uh
the importance of our lack of isolation
within within the church um looking down
at uh
Galatians 6 and: 2
Galatians 6 and: 2 bear one another's
burdens and thereby fulfill the law of
Christ how do we do that if we're not if
we're
isolated right there's a lot of things
that we're commanded to do and and think
about with one another and that requires
a community we'll look at this a little
bit more as we dive into the community
side um but for us to withdraw ourselves
from one another withdraw ourselves from
Society how are we able to love one
another uh how am I able to Bear your
burdens if I can't say what you've even
been up to in the past few weeks cuz
I've decided to isolate myself from you
or or church um it's important for us to
be together to do the things that Christ
ask us to do for one another um and that
that requires that community and and not
isolation uh from the church that he has
given us looking at the next uh next
book Ephesians 4
1-3 Ephesians 41-3 therefore I the
prisoner of the Lord implore you walk to
Walk in a manner worthy of the calling
which you have been called with all
humility and gentleness with patience
showing tolerance to one another in love
being diligent to preserve the unity of
the spirit in the bond of the peace
showing tolerance for one another in
love again you have to be present um
being diligent to preserve the unity how
are we unified if we are isolated from
that which we're called to Unity um it
requires us to be present it requires us
to have
relationships uh more than just hey how
you doing but actually forming and
maintaining good healthy relationships
uh with one another uh
Philippians 2:
1-4 Philippians 2
1-4 therefore if there is any
encouragement in Christ if there is any
any consolation of love if there is any
Fellowship of the spirit if any
affection and compassion make my joy
complete by being of the same mind
maintaining the Same Love United in
spirit intent on one purpose do nothing
from selfish or empty conceit but with
humility of Mind regard one another as
more important than yourselves do not
merely look out for your own personal
interests but for the interests of
others again along the same vein right
we have to be present we can't be
isolated to know what those interests
are
uh and to understand what uh one another
is going through and bear those burdens
and then finally Hebrews 10:
25 in regards to the church not
forsaking our own assembly as is the
habit of some but encouraging one
another in all the more as you see the
day Drawing Near right we're not called
to isolate um there are things that we
are called to isolation from right it's
it's okay to withdraw ourselves from
from sin it is is okay to withdraw
ourselves from from worldly thinking
from worldly Deeds uh but whenever we
think about the church and we think
about this community that we have here
and this family that we've built here
and that we want to grow it is
imperative that we not isolate ourselves
from it um we are here for each other
right no matter what the occasion no
matter what is going on Hurricane
sickness whatever it be this is the
group that you can rely on these are the
people that that you can call these are
the people that you can reach out to
these are the people that you can ask to
pray for you um and it's important for
us to recognize the importance of us
being here and what that does uh because
again not forsaking the assembly as some
have or in the habit of doing but
encouraging one another as if though
whenever we're not here we can't
encourage right because well how do you
encouraged when you're not present um
and all the more as you see the day
Drawing Near so this is the community
that we need to be involved with and
that we cannot isolate ourselves with
because we will see changes in our life
and even the changes that we don't see
come at the expense of others because of
our lack of being here or isolation
right when we're not here it's noticed
by somebody who is and that isolation
can bring down somebody else um so
that's that's kind of what we're looking
at on isolation but let's take a look at
community right so what is a community
or what is community um a relational
group with shared goals interests and
activities again for the sake of the
class we're going to be talking about
our community here right we have shared
goals um teaching Christ transforming
lives right um bringing others to know
him trying to get his word out there so
that way uh more can be saved we have uh
shared interests in the Bible and in God
and and and his statutes and ordinances
and uh shared activities right we come
here every Sunday we come here every
Wednesday we come together for events
and for uh fun things and um even maybe
outside of this right we have our our
friends here who we go to dinner with or
spend time with outside um that's a
community so the four elements of
community psychology so this is a full
branch of psychology right there's
there's multiple multiple branches of
psychology um and Community psychology
is in and of itself a branch that looks
at studying the way that social
interactions and the society that is
around a human can then form within that
human and how it basically what what the
Mind does in those um which includes
whether they're part of it or whether
they're withdrawn uh through isolation
so part of it is membership that's one
of the elements so again taking the
stance of the church being a part of the
church we hear as members of this church
fulfill this element of community um in
that we are members right all of us here
we come together we we know when the
place is open we know when it's not uh
we know when the activities and things
are happening um that comes through part
of being membership two common symbols
right the cross for us we recognize the
cross as a symbol of Hope as a symbol of
our Salvation um what would I mean if
we're for being honest what was a death
sentence probably the most horrific kind
of thought that you could have back in
the day would have been the cross it was
like oo I don't want to think about that
that's scary I mean that's that is a
horrific and brutal death and that was
the symbol that it held but then through
Christ death that symbol has changed in
its meaning right now it's become again
hope salvation um the love of God um so
we can see that that we have a common
symbol and that's just one of of many
that that we can all share um emotional
safety right so whenever we come here we
should this should be a place of having
emotional safety somewhere that you can
share what's going on in your life
without fear of people making fun of you
without fear of getting outcasted or or
sent away and on top of that which is a
little bit more of a difficult one I
think at times but this should be a
place with emotional safety for us to
share our shortcomings right this should
be the place where we can share the sin
that we are struggling with or what we
have done without fear of being
ridiculed for it and rather invited in
for prayer and for help and for guidance
from those who have gone through the
same thing or have more wisdom than we
we do at that point in time um
unfortunately we can see in churches
that what can happen which breaks down
this community is somebody shares the
wrong that they've done or shares the
struggles um and it might get to the
point where they get outcasted or pushed
away for that uh looked down upon
treated different not asked to come up
in front and pray anymore as if they're
the only one within the building that's
struggling with sin and when that
happens we can see that Community starts
to fall apart and Community starts to
break and this is one of the biggest
things that I would say emotional safety
is probably one of the biggest things
that uh leads to people leaving church
and never coming back and it doesn't
matter which church they go to I could
be in South Dakota and have gone to a
church and been so hurt by somebody at
that church that I come and move down to
Florida and every church here I have the
same mentality of they're going to do
the same thing cuz that's church people
and that's what we see happen right we
see people walk away and never come back
because they don't feel emotionally safe
because of one person in one place at
one time that for the rest of their life
has damaged their view of what church is
so this is an important one for us to
remember on the side of community and we
need to be harboring an emotionally safe
place for people to come and to express
and to share um because likewise if on
the off chance that they go and they
visit somewhere or on the off chance
that they try it again and they are met
with this maybe that can be the thing to
turn it back around um so this is an
important one but emotional safety and
one another right sharing with you you
sharing with me us sharing all together
and of course emotional safety in God
you know we need to know that that he
listens to us that we can pray to him
that we can go to him um at any time
time for anything uh and that he hears
because when we seek um we can find and
then finally boundaries right so
boundaries are important too because
likewise in people sharing and these
sorts of things and motional safety we
still have to be uh in accordance with
God's word and we still have to be in
accordance with the morals that we have
and that he has set up so while yes this
is a place of emotional safety and a
place to come and talk and and be a part
of a community there's also things that
you can't do here and there's also
things that even if you share we're
going to encourage you against the
opposite or to do the opposite and if
that is not met then boundaries can lead
to maybe even
a um the the volen told isolation right
because there are things of the world
that don't need to bleed into church
right I mean I think that one's pretty
obvious so um four elements again
membership common symbols emotional
safety and boundaries and whenever you
have these and it it comes together with
a group of people you can build a really
good really strong Community um and that
Community can be I mean really think
about here it's like a family right it's
more than just people that I see once or
twice a week I mean this is this is a
family uh that comes together so let's
look at verses in regarding um Community
which we won't read all these because I
do have a lot and uh about five five or
so more minutes but we'll read through
some of them so let's look at
Proverbs 17 and verse 17
Proverbs 1717 again pretty common one a
friend loves at all times and a brother
is born for adversity right a friend
loves at all times you know to be loving
to be friendly we have to be together we
have to have that Community uh let's pop
over a few chapters to 27 in verse 17 in
Proverbs
2717 iron sharpens iron so one man
sharpens another again you cannot be
isolated and expect to be sharpened we
can't be isolated and expect to be
edified to be brought up to grow um we
have to be have to be with one another
uh in order to see these things uh
taking place 1 Corinthians 1:10 right we
read this one this morning if I'm not
mistaken now I exhort you Brethren by
the name of our Lord Jesus Christ that
all you agree and that there be no
divisions among you but that you be made
complete in the same mind and in the
same judgment right no divisions let's
not withdraw ourselves for whatever
reason uh but rather stick together
strong as a community and then uh being
complete in the same mind same judgment
right kind of goes back to that uh to
that definition that we had uh 1 John 1
and verse
7 but if we walk in the light as he
himself is in the light and we have
fellowship with one another and the
blood of Jesus his son cleanses us and
the blood of Jesus his son cleanses us
all from sin right and we fellowship
with one another means coming together
being with one another um being a part
of that Community Colossians chapter 3
and verse
13 same idea from before bearing one
another and forgiving each other Whoever
has a complaint against anyone just as
the Lord forgave you also you so should
you um bearing one another forgiving one
another takes being present it takes
being part of a community um and it
takes being mindful of the people and
building Rel relationships within that
Community as well um I think that's an
important important concept as well
because it's easy for us to um it's easy
to claim
Community while still being withdrawn
within the place of the community right
because we can be socially isolated
physically but we can also be mentally
isolated even though we're physically
present um we can come here on Sundays
and we can sit in these chairs and we
can half in half out listen to what's
being said and we can get up and we can
maybe grab a cup of coffee maybe say hi
to two people hey how's it going good to
see you leave go home and that's it for
the
week well I was there right I'm still
part of the community well okay yeah
maybe but at the same
time What relationships are you building
in what way are you able to encourage
and what way are you able to love and
what way are we able to um bear one
another's burdens if I couldn't tell you
the burden of a single person in here or
or what's going on in anybody's life in
here because of the fact that it's so
surface level and then I'm gone before
you ever have the opportunity to meet
them or get to know them should I say um
so I think that's important within our
our community for us to remember is that
we need to physically be here yes but we
need to mentally be here we need to
prepare our minds before we come um so
that way we can really build
relationships uh and be with one another
when we're in in here uh kind of what I
was speaking to on earlier in James 5
therefore confess your sins to one
another and pray for one another so that
you may be healed the effective the
effective prayer of a righteous man can
accomplish much right so back to that
idea of of asking and and being here and
sharing and and being in a
community there is power in the prayers
of the righteous people in this building
right there's power that comes through
US asking for prayer and people praying
for that which is being asked we come up
here and we do a family prayer that's
amazing and I love it and I think it's
important but there's power when we take
that and we individually pray for the
needs of the people on that family
prayer as well and that's important and
then then not only that but then
therefore confess your sins to one
another and pray for one another so you
may be healed so not only the the
healing and the things of like the
physical or what's going on just in life
but the spiritual healing through prayer
of the sins and the wrongs that we
do Hey brother I'm struggling with XYZ I
I just would really appreciate your
prayers on that and that brother or
sister goes home and that night they
pray for
you there's power in that that comes
through
more than just even ourselves praying
about it right so I think that's
important for us to remember too in that
emotional safety that it leads to that
emotional safety but then it also leads
back to the um it's it's on both fronts
emotional safety in I'm going to ask you
to pray for me and you're going to pray
for me emotional safety and God's going
to have power through that prayer that
you prayed and now I have complete trust
and hope in both that allows for a real
effective change in my life your life
our lives um and growth within the
church which can be good so real quick
we'll just read um we'll read one of the
the Romans and then we'll we'll pop over
to the next uh application portion
because we're at 15 already but um
looking at 1 11 and
15 or excuse me 1 11 and 12 um for I
long to see you you so that I may impart
some spiritual gift to you that you may
be established that is that I may be
encouraged together while with while
among you each one of us by our each
other's Faith both yours and mine again
this community Harbors encouragement and
edification of one another we need to be
here we need to be with each other we
need to work on encouraging one another
and that comes through just even our
faith right just sitting next to
somebody and hearing them sing the songs
of we're singing sitting next to
somebody and and and seeing them bow
their heads in prayer sitting next to
each other and and partaking of the
Lord's Supper that Faith encourages us
it encourages you it encourages me it
encourages those around us um but we
can't isolate and do that right we have
to be part of the community um for the
sake of time if you want to take a
picture of these these other verses
they're they're up here um there's a lot
of stuff about Community a lot of stuff
about encouragement a lot of stuff about
uh growing and edifying and and us being
together right the church is the bride
of Christ um we we are married to Christ
and that doesn't include like me but
that includes us right that that is a
churchwide thing a community of
Believers that is who is married back to
Christ I can't withdraw myself from that
we can't isolate ourselves from that we
need to be present we need to be a part
of that uh and we need to grow within
that so application while isolation from
certain things can be good isolation
from the church and from God's people is
harmful right we talked about isolation
let's let's you know go worldly
isolation from one another can lead to a
host of physical and psychological
symptoms likewise isolation from the
church and from those who are members of
that church and of that Community can
lead to host of spiritual problems and
spiritual illnesses so we need to be
mindful that we need to be present in
the community that God has blessed us
with here uh we are a community within a
community and we are called to the work
that God has laid before us this is a
community this is a family this is
something that we are part of weekly but
within this or outside of this community
is the community of Brandon is the
community of Lithia is the community of
ARA right we are a part of this
community with within that community and
this community has a um basically orders
set out by God right go out into the
world and teach his word um so we are
called within this community to spread
it to the community around us uh and
hopefully by doing so we will add to
this community here um three Community
edifies both us and those that we commun
uh commune with right like we just said
whenever we're here the encouragement
that comes from our faith and from your
faith to one another that's what brings
us up that's what encourages us that's
what keeps us coming back um that's what
helps grow our faith and grow the faith
of the church um and grow the strength
of what we're doing here is by doing
that with one another and on top of that
I think it also even extends out to the
other churches around to know that there
are other churches this morning who are
meeting who are communing together at
the Lord's Supper who are sharing the
word of God and spreading the gospel
news um that edifies us it it bring
brings us up and it encourages us and
then finally even in the times of us
feeling isolated or lonely whether
that's because of our own personal
issues that we're dealing with that
bring us away or whether that be because
we feel as though we're being shunned
out God is always with us right so even
whenever you feel that loneliness even
whenever you feel that everything is
closing in around you and that you're
isolated and nobody understands what I'm
going through um God is with us and
Christ is with you and Christ
understands because he loved us enough
that he would become one of us so that
way he could understand and through
understanding he can mediate between us
and God so go to him in prayer right ask
for that ask for his mediation ask for
him to plead on behalf of the father um
and work on finding your way back to the
community because likewise in God is
always with us you always have this
community here uh to be a part of and to
grow with and that uh that longs for
those who Fe feel isolated or who have
isolated to return to the community so
with that let's say a quick prayer and
then we will be uh dismissed to
go Lord God we we thank you so much for
this church Lord I Thank you so much for
every individual who uh comes in these
doors week in and week out who are
willing and excited and ready to learn
about you ready to worship you and and
praise your name um God we we just are
so happy to to see even day um another
Soul added added into this church Lord
and into your family God um we can see
the difference that this community can
make uh whether that be through recently
with the storms or or just through
today's baptism or even just through
being a place for people to come and and
speak with one another and with people
with like Minds who have one goal Lord
and that is to um just to build your
kingdom to lift you up and glorify you
and to make it to heaven with you
eternally one day God you are so good to
us and we we thank you for all that you
do Lord we know that we fall short we
know that we mess up um and we know that
there are times that we even isolate
ourselves Lord we pray that if we feel
isolated or we we are in in whatever way
Lord that um we can have the courage and
and the help to uh return to the
community Lord we pray that even in our
shortcomings and in our sins Lord that
you forgive us and and see Christ in us
um and and that we can just uh repent
and and come back to you Lord we thank
you for everything keep us safe on this
day keep us safe on this week we pray
all this in Jesus name amen have a
wonderful Sunday
