let me read you a little poem I didn't
write it
so for God so loved the world sounds
like one you might have heard before but
this is a poem for God so loved the
world not just a
few the wise the great the noble and the
true and also those favored those common
the poor and those who evil do
God loved the
world but do
you we must share the
gospel the gospel was intended to go
Global not just local and in the process
of going global there was supposed to be
a
Unity it's worthy of a Unity that Jesus
prayed for in John
17 it is worthy of a Unity that Paul
preached for and taught for that we just
read we live in a fallen
World it has not been fully redeemed yet
the cost has been paid but the
Redemption of the body has clearly not
occurred yet otherwise it wouldn't fight
you every step of the way that will
occur though but in the meantime we live
in this Fallen World and therefore
division is actually a friend in a way
it prevents a tyrannical unity and
that's why even in Genesis 11 there was
a linguistic division there have been
doctrinal divisions there have been
reformational divisions between
Protestants and Catholics and there were
reasons for that that make good sense in
a fallen world even ethnical divisions
are needed from time to time in a fallen
World division between those who believe
and teach the gospel itself is evidence
that we live in a fallen World System
otherwise we would be absolutely in
harmony with each
other respected religious men throughout
the world have praised the gospel
throughout history I'll mention just a
couple of these guys John Calvin a name
that you've probably heard of before he
said the gospel is not a doctrine of the
tongue but of life it cannot be grasped
by reason and memory only but it is
fully understood when it possesses the
whole soul and penetrates to the inner
recesses of the heart JC riyle who's
also well known said the man who does
not glory in the gospel can surely know
little of the plague of sin that is
within him Derek Thomas also welln said
the gospel is not God loves us but God
loves us at the cost of his own
son Charles Stanley who recently passed
away but was on TV for years said the
joy you'll have when you meet that
person in heaven will far exceed any
discomfort you felt in sharing the
gospel they all speak well of the Gospel
Timothy Keller who also recently passed
away said the gospel is this we are more
sinful and flawed in ourselves than we
ever dared believe yet at the very same
time we are more loved and accepted in
Jesus Christ than we ever dared hope he
was the preacher at Redeemer in New York
City but passed away
recently the gospel
should be preached in ways
appropriate for the audience that means
it should be preached with
scripture with
boldness with
empathy in conversational
language but it is powerful enough and
this is really important to hear the
gospel is powerful enough that even if
it's presented
poorly by a weak vessel and a poor
speaker men are still
saved and I'm living proof of
that the gospel should unite the world
and we want to just look at three
reasons to encourage us us I believe
toward that Unity because it really
should unite the world and it is pointed
in that direction here are the three
lessons that we need to get today let us
be United by the gospel that is to be
preached
globally that's what was just read a
moment ago that's what must happen in
Matthew 24:14 I'll read it again and
this Gospel of the Kingdom will be
preached not maybe will be preached in
all the world as a witness to All
Nations and then the end will come Mark
puts it this way and Mark 16:15 and 16
and he said to them go into all the
world and preach the gospel to Every
Creature the gospel essentially is the
resurrection of Christ that he is not in
that tomb anymore Galatians 3 and verse
9 says and the scripture foreseeing that
God would justify the Gentiles by faith
preach the gospel to Abraham did you
know that the gospel was preached to
Abraham and preached the gospel to
Abraham beforehand saying in you all the
nations shall be
blessed it is global Colossians 1:23
puts it this way if indeed you continue
in the faith grounded and steadfast and
are not moved away from the hope of the
Gospel which you heard which was
preached to every creature under Heaven
of which I Paul became a minister so
literally the gospel the gospel is to be
preached it's to be preached globally
into every nation not some of the
countries but every single country of
the world every single land where anyone
lives that job is not fully done you are
called to help get that done
and the Lord will come once we get that
done but that we're to be United over
the resurrection of Christ the empty
tomb we need to be preaching it every
chance we get and by the way remember
what I said I said it about me but I say
it about you now so it applies to you
too even if you fumble through it even
if you don't have a good attitude when
you do it even if you present it poorly
the the gospel is not dependent upon you
it is dependent upon the truth of it
that's revealed in his word so all you
have to do is present it the best you
can God's power is enough I promise you
number
two let us be United by the gospel that
is to be printed globally where do you
get that Rex oh it's true and you need
to be a part of it let me encourage you
if you have a chance to share a Bible
around the world do it if you have a
chance to contribute to paying for
Bibles being printed around the world do
it listen to Matthew 26 and you'll begin
to understand how I know this is true
Matthew 26:13 says assuredly I say to
you wherever this gospel is preached in
the whole world what this woman so
that's it's going to go to the whole
world wherever it's preached in the
whole world what this woman remember
this woman woman that came and anointed
Jesus for his
burial what this woman has done will
also be told as a memorial to
her I'll come back to that a minute let
me read it again Mark 14:9 assuredly I
say to you wherever this gospel is
preached in the whole world what this
woman has done will also be told as a
memorial were it only a story that had
been told by the apostles long ago ago
that story would have long been lost we
would not have it had that not been
written down had it not been recorded we
would have had to been inspired to re
remember every story that's in the
scriptures there's no way that you could
remember everything and a woman who did
such a thing as that would not be the
emphasis of us I guarantee you I don't
know the whole Bible I can't quote it
from heart and neither can you you can't
even do that with one of the books of
the New Testament you don't know it by
heart so the only way that this could be
guaranteed to be true is somehow it had
to be recorded in a way that even those
of us who were not inspired would be
able to tell that story and that story
had to be told according to what he said
into all the world but you may not
believe this yet stay with me I'm not
done proving this and John 12 verse 48
says this he who rejects me and does not
receive my words plural has that which
judges him the word word that I have
spoken will judge him in the last day
were it not to be recorded were it only
to ever be spoken there's no way that it
would be fair to judge you on something
that's here say we had to have it
absolutely confirmed in a way in which
we could read it understand it and be
held accountable before something but
I'm not through that's true what I just
said is true but there's more Revelation
20 and verse 12 says and I saw the the
dead small and great stand before God
and oh listen and
books were
opened and the dead were judged
according to their works by the things
which were written in the books remember
he said my words will judge you and the
things written in the book so what does
that tell you that tells you that the
word of God would be printed throughout
the world world and every nation because
the gospel's going to the whole world
has to be able to read it the Wickliffe
Bible translators maybe you want to jump
on board September
2018 they came out with some information
that how far along they were well
there's new information in 2023 but in
1999 way back then they came out with
the thing called Vision 2025 and it was
their plan to have every language group
in the world have a Bible in their
language by the way that hasn't happened
if you think everybody in the world can
pick up a Bible and read it in their
language that's not true quit believing
that that is not true in fact many of
the ones who have some Bible don't have
the whole Bible in their language to
this day let me go further it's worse
than that it's way worse than that when
in 199 99 they made the goal of having a
Bible in everybody's Language by
2025 they then started to work on that
and at the rate they were going they had
to recalculate they realized that they
would not be able to get that done until
2150 but there's good
news with technology being what it is
now ai and the like suddenly that number
has come way down in fact they are now
saying at the rate that they're
translating Bibles into everybody's
language everybody will have a Bible in
their language by
2038 are we getting close to the end or
what what's going on here 2038 that's
you might live to see 2038 I might not
but you might live to see 2038 and see
every language in the world having a
Bible and Usher Christ coming I I I
don't know but I'm kind of excited about
the thought aren't you 2038 that's
within grasp isn't it that's within
grass so let's be United by the gospel
let be printed globally amen and
everybody have it number two number
three sorry can't count number three let
us be United by the gospel that is to be
perceived globally that's what I said it
will be
perceived globally it's going to be
preached it's going to be printed it's
going to be out there
right well what are you to perceive
about it the world is to perceive the
gospel is about Jesus listen to Mark 1
vers1 says the beginning of the Gospel
of Jesus Christ the son of God the most
important aspect of the Gospel is that
it's about Jesus and him being the Son
of God the second thing is the world is
to perceive the gospel is about the
kingdom that he's bring ringing mark
1:14 Jesus came to Galilee preach the
gospel of the kingdom of God so
literally it's about him ruling as King
which of course he's not ruling in the
way that we look forward to him be
ruling he is on his throne but he is not
yet ruling in the way that we want to
see it when this world is fully redeemed
and the world is to perceive the gospel
is about Grace this is critical if you
don't understand that the gospel is
about Grace you probably will not sign
on to it Galatians 1:6 says I Marvel
that you are turning away so soon from
him who called you in the grace of
Christ to a different gospel see the
gospel is about Grace why would you turn
away from grace and to some other kind
of a gospel because the gospel is a
gospel of grace and mercy and peace that
has come to you and the world is to
perceive the gospel is about more than
that it's about belief it's about
repentance it's about baptism Mark 1
ver4 from the very beginning John was
preaching of baptism repentance for the
remission of sins that's not changed
baptism is a baptism of repentance for
the remission of sins that was true when
John preached it it's true in Acts
chapter 2 it's true right now Mark 1:1
15 says and saying repent and believe in
the gospel that's exactly what you must
do but it's more than that see the world
is to proceive the gospel is about
obedience if you don't perceive it's
about obedience then there's no change
you're not going to be a different
person we baptize you and you don't see
it's about obedience then you don't even
understand what you're doing number one
it's obedience to be baptized we're
going to have a baptism here in a few
minutes and that is the first real step
of obedience in faith that they have to
do we all must believe we all must
repent we all must confess Christ but
the real beginning is when we are
immersed and that's obedience to the
gospel of Christ the death the burial
and the resurrection it's the only way
to really fulfill the death the burial
and the resurrection is to die to sin to
be buried in a watery grave and arise to
walk in newness of life so but not all
have obeyed the gospel is what we read
in Romans 10 verse 16 so the gospel must
be obeyed somebody says well I just
received it by faith well that's
wonderful you still have to obey
it well I I know I was saved when I
received so you can just live like a
devil now oh no you still must obey it
and it better change your life and if it
doesn't change your life you need to
take another look at it amen if your
life's the same as it was before you
said you repented you said you confessed
it you said you would follow the lord
and then you were baptized and you've
quit all that maybe there needs to be a
change maybe you didn't obey the gospel
to begin with I don't know because it's
to be obeyed there's to be a change
there's got to be a change so that's the
lesson that's what the world is to be
United over literally that's it that it
should be preached in every single
country every single little village
every single town in the world and then
it's to be printed where every single
person in the world can pick up a Bible
and read it in their own language amen
and that's not done yet so you want to
put some money into that put your money
where your mouth is and help the gospel
get to the whole world okay and then
more than that not only does it need to
be preached and printed it has to be
perceived the world needs to understand
it so it's our job still because we live
around people who still don't understand
the gospel you know how I know we got
members and aren't even in attendance
this
morning that's right there sitting at
home watching on the
internet they don't understand the need
to be together the Bible calls us
together a church is is not everywhere
but together a church is together it's
an assembly of the Lord amen and it's
not just that it's got we've got what we
got FBI couldn't find some of our
members it's worse than that we got
people in this town do you think the
majority of Brandon is in a church this
morning you're
mistaken about 25% at
best and you think we're done
I don't have to do this anymore we've
preached the gospel oh no no no we got
to explain it because they apparently
don't understand it or they'd be with us
amen they would be with
us Fritz
Chrysler uh died back in 1962 he was one
of the world famous violinists he earned
a lot of money playing around the world
but he is a giver he's very generous and
he gave most of his money away he's just
he loved playing the violin he's a great
violinist and he played all around the
world but on some of his travels he
discovered one of the most magnificent
violins he'd ever seen and he thought I
really want to buy it and he found out
how much it was but it's no way he
didn't have the money he had given away
all of his money and so he went around
raised money to get it you know so that
it could be preserved and after he got
the enough money together he went
back and the violin was gone
had' been sold but he found out who sold
to was some collector he chased Down The
Collector he goes to him he says I'd
like to buy and he says oh no no that
that's my prize possession he said no no
no that's not for
sale and he was very
upset well he said well can I play it
once can I just play it
once before it's put in a
box and ever played again
and the man said yeah I guess that'd be
okay so he
played and he did the best he could to
play and it was
magnificent filled the
room it was
great and when he got through the
collector almost in tears said I have no
right to keep that to
myself you hear it
I have no
right to keep that to
myself it's
yours take it into the
world and let people hear
it some things it's wrong to keep the
bottle
up the
Gospel of Jesus Christ is like that
once you truly perceive
it and you receive
it you begin to live
it and it becomes a part of who you
are you just must tell
it Jesus is not in that
grave Jesus is not in that
grave Jesus is not in that grave
you have nothing to fear now so you must
take it globally you do it by preaching
it do it by helping print print it in
every language do it by explaining it
carefully to the people around you so
that they can hear it give them a Bible
help some so help somebody with just
give them a Bible we got people living
around us they don't even own a Bible
give them a Bible help them read it
explain it to
them help them perceive it that's your
Global
Mission we're to be United on that every
single Christian on the planet should be
re United on that totally completely I'm
behind that cause I'm for that cause I
will help in that cause or you know what
I just another born
lesson tired of these sermons can't wait
to go get something to eat
God forgive
us let's be serious about our call it's
Global it's not just
Brandon it's not just Val
R God wants it
all will you help will you be United on
that he's going to get it you want to
get on the bandwagon or not
he's going to get it I promise you God's
not a failure he's going to get exactly
what he wanted I want to be a part of it
don't you we have an opportunity if you
we're going to have a baptism in on
since we've got it ready if there's
somebody that also wants to be baptized
what a perfect time for you to truly
give your life to the Lord repenting of
your sins confessing the name of Christ
and being baptized even today as this
other young gentleman's going to do if
you need to come come while we stand
while we say
