Unity is not always the easiest thing I
heard somebody say where two or three
are gathered together in his name
they're at least four or five things
that we're divided
over I think sometimes that's true can I
take you back I want to be sentimental
for a minute okay some of you aren't old
enough to be sentimental I guess but if
you're old enough like me to be
sentimental for just a moment I want to
take you back in time I want to take you
first to a place called Green Bank West
Virginia probably very few of you if any
have been to Green Bank Bank West
Virginia it's a mountain uh town if you
will you go through the mountain
turnpike there's a lot of twist and
turns you finally come over the hill and
you're kind of on the border separating
the mountains separating uh Virginia and
West Virginia and then you'll notice
that your cell phone drops out and then
you'll notice that your radio will not
pick up any radio
station when you get down into the
little green Bank Town a population of
143 people unless Something's Happened
lately 143 people you'll find that not
only does your cell phone not work but
it's almost illegal for you to try to
use it so it is a very quiet town there
is is no there are no Wireless
Services no
internet no cell phone a quieter
place maybe you don't remember it but
there used to be a show on television
called The Andy Griffith
Show maybe you if you remember that show
you might remember that there was one
episode that I find very intriguing
called man in a hurry
there was a businessman that was coming
through town on a Sunday which is
unusual anyway but because back in that
day people didn't really drive around
and do much uh on a Sunday and he was
coming through town on a Sunday and he
had to be in Charlotte on Monday morning
for a business meeting but his car broke
down in
maybr and that's when he began to be
desperate he couldn't find anybody to
fix his car he needed to get on to
Charlotte and he couldn't find anyway
there was no garage open there was
nobody to work on it it was Sunday and
nothing was happening he became more and
more panicked finally this was by the
way the first time we saw Gomer pile
Gomer his first time on the show and he
not the guy that normally fix cars was
going to try to fix his
car but it didn't happen too
quickly they went to church and I'll
talk about that in just a minute but
afterward
they went over to Andy's house and he
took the businessman to his house to
feed him lunch and they had lunch maybe
you'll remember this there was a
discussion about small acts like
um some stirring some memories like how
to take an apple and open an apple or
what do you got peel an apple without
breaking the
skin right and that was a
memory and finally there he tried to get
in call Charlotte but he couldn't
because the party line was so busy that
some of you may remember party lines was
so busy the two sisters were on there
talking about their sore feet and he
couldn't get through to
Charlotte so they had eaten and after
they were eating they're sitting out on
the porch and Barney's analyzing his
plans for the day and Barney says and he
says yep
I think I'm going to go down and get me
a bottle of
pop and then I'm going to go
home and I'm going to take a
nap and then after I take my nap I think
I'm going to go over to the
Malo and then probably watch some
TV
yeah that's what I believe I'm going to
do and the businessman said well go
ahead go go go
go when he finally gets ready to leave
cuz they actually get his car ready to
leave he's now not sure he wants to
leave because even Opie says man I was
looking forward to you staying because I
was going to have to have an adventure
sleep and what do you mean he says I was
going to sleep on an ironing board that
was laying on two different chairs I was
looking forward to
it there's another similar story and
it's called what's your hurry and there
was this visiting preacher Everett Dr
Everett Bren who came to town and what
he preaches at that little church and
this is where I'm going with all this
what he preaches at that little church
is a sermon call what's your hurry now
you got to understand everybody's
falling asleep in church do y'all
remember when everybody fell asleep in
church everybody's falling asleep at
church why did everybody fall asleep at
church cuz we had no air conditioning do
yall Remember When there was no air
conditioning and we had to have all the
windows open does anybody remember this
when we we didn't have fans we had fans
from the local Funeral Home anybody
remember some of the greatest moments in
church are smelling the milw from the
baptistry tasting the bread which tasted
a little funny because he'd been sitting
there for hours or for a day or so and
it almost mil
dude greate juice you remember you had
to cover it with that
shawl I'm going somewhere with
that I think we've bought into bigger is
better busier is better look at us we
look nothing like
that and we think it's
better the distinctive play of the
churches Christ is let us be United but
I want to talk about how we need to be
United by worship and I know that
Jesus prayed for Unity and Paul preached
for Unity and I know that in the Fallen
world we live in it's just about not
going to happen I understand all that
but we see and we serve a great God
we've just been talking about him with a
great Global ambition numbers 14 I
talked about this last week verse 21
truly as I live all the Earth shall be
filled with the glory of the Lord in
John 17:21 that prayer is that the world
not a few people but that the world may
believe that he sent
me as a global worship is coming are you
hearing me now it's not that little
church building and it's not this
one a
global
World worship
is coming and we should learn to be
United by worship because whether you
like it you agree with it you think it's
appropriate or not it's
coming there will be a global worship
service you just heard it read about we
should learn worship is best when we
have one
convocation you may not know the word
convocation Leviticus 23:3 says a not
these but a holy convocation in all your
dwellings that means there was always
meant to be an assembly where all would
gather wherever people lived and it's
called the assembly in Hebrews 10 and:
25 the assembling of ourselves together
there is to be one convocation if we did
things right there would be one assembly
in Brandon
today we should learn that worship is
best when we have one
day Acts 20:7 says on the first day of
the week when the disciples came
together there's a day it's not to be
ignored now you may think that you can
Pray by yourself you don't need to be a
part of a holy convocation but you are
wrong not only are we to be gathered in
a holy convocation but there is one day
that we are definitely to be together 1
Corinthians 16:2 on the first day of
every
week I'm not to forget about it because
we're going boating
today I'm playing golf today we're going
to fly CS today
this is the one day that that's not
supposed to be the way things are we
should learn that worship is best when
we not only have one convocation and one
holy day but one place we ought all
everybody that names the name of Christ
ought to be in one place this morning
but it ain't so but it's supposed to be
so 1 Corinthians 11 and verse 20 when
you come together in one place 1
Corinthians 42:23 the whole chch Church
comes together in one
place not I'll just watch
online our text reveals seven groups of
those who will be a part of the one
worship and listen to me there will be
one seven groups that will be in that
one and why you should want to be a part
of that
one so that's what we're going to look
at number next or number one I guess
since it's not number next number one
let's be United by worship for all will
worship God with all the Shepherds there
have been many of Elders I think we've
been through about 10 or 15 since I've
been here maybe more I didn't actually
count them but it's somewhere in that
neighborhood Revelation 5: 5-8 says this
but one of the elders said to me and by
the way Elders go to
heaven elders elders go to heaven if you
don't think you're going you need to
resign Elders go to heaven but one of
the elders said to me do not weep behold
the line of the tribe of Judah the root
of David has prevailed to open the
scroll and to loose its Seven Seals he
gave himself so that the rest Could
Happen verse six and I looked and behold
in the midst of the throne that's where
the father sits which by the way gets
the greater glory in this text if you
didn't notice it midst of the throne and
the four living creatures and in the
midst of the elders so there's huge
number of Elders it seems to be stood a
lamb as though it had been slain having
seven horns and seven eyes which are the
seven spirits of God sent out into all
the Earth then he came and took the
scroll out of my hand of him who sat on
the throne that is the father who is the
great great God verse eight now when he
had taken the scroll the four living
creatures and the 24 Elders fell down
before the lamb each having a harp and a
golden bowl full of incense which are
the prayers of the Saints the Shepherds
will be
there that makes it
great uh which way we going
there what just happened
finally got to it number three number
two let us be United by worship for all
will worship God not only with all the
Shepherds but with all the saints and by
the way Saints aren't special people
they are
you that much we know but it's also you
are the special people Revelation 5:8
says now when he had taken the scroll
scroll the four living creatures and the
24 Elders fell down before the lamb each
having a harp and golden bowls full of
incense which are the prayers of the
Saints that's you your prayers they
haven't ever been forgotten and neither
will you be
forgotten you will never be
forgotten number three so not only will
the Shepherds be there and the Saints be
there let's be be United by worship for
all will worship God with all the
societies that have ever been you think
all the societies all the societies that
will ever have ever been will be
represented there because it says in
verse n and they sang a new song saying
you are worthy now they're singing to
the lamb you are worthy to take the
scroll and to open its seal for you were
slain and have redeemed us to God by
your blood out of every tribe not some
tribes every tribe every tongue not some
tongues every tongue every people not
some people every people every nation
Every Nation not some Nations Every
Nation all societies that have ever been
will be represented in that
group but let's be United about worship
for all will worship God with all the
singers we always we sing a song when
all the singers get get
home that's why you don't sit in church
brother I'm talking to somebody right
now and I don't know who cuz I ain't
picking on nobody cuz I didn't watch I
sat on the front row looking this way
but some of you ain't
singing shame on you I don't care if you
sound like a toad frog doesn't matter
sing amen amen walls amen how about you
brother saying Amen to yourself right
now some of you need to sing sing amen I
don't care how you sound it doesn't
matter that's not the point the singers
are going to be there it says in verse 9
and they sang a new song saying you are
worthy notice verse 10 too it says and
and what all they sing I think what they
sing is pretty interesting you are
worthy to take the scroll and open its
seals for you were slain that was
redeemed as to God by your blood out of
every tribe and tongue and people and
nation and have made us Kings and
Priests to our God and we shall reign on
the earth that's future this is written
in the past is Future and we'll Reign on
the earth have y'all paid attention to
that
term yeah probably not number
next let us be United by the worship for
all will worship God with all the
Supernaturals by the way there are
Supernaturals I don't know what they are
I don't know how many there are I don't
know what they all look like I don't
know how they are even allocated into
heaven I know that some of them are
supposedly Arc or above the others Arc
angels I have no idea there may be
millions of Kinds for all I know I have
no knowledge but I do know all the
Supernaturals of be there it says in
verse 11 then I looked and I heard the
voice of many angels around the throne
and the living creatures what is that I
have no idea I'm just quoting and the
elders and the number of them was 10,000
time 10,000 and thousands
I think there's a few Angels
okay Supernaturals what do I mean by
that I don't know maybe they're Giants I
don't know maybe they're little bitty
things I don't know I don't know if
there's a thousand can Dan on the head
of a pen I don't know I don't know
anything about it I'm just telling you
there are supernatural beings that God
has created that are far above anything
you've ever seen in your
life number next I want to be in a group
with you them I'd like to be with them
sing next one wouldn't that be good
let's be United by worship for all will
worship God with all the septian I'm
using septian for a reason I'll get to
it in just a minute but I I don't I I've
never seen that number it's it's a
really big number it takes too long to
write it okay it's uh look look at verse
11 and 12 then I looked and I heard the
voice of many angels around the throne
the living creatures and the elders the
numbers of them was 10,000 time 10 ,000
by the way the largest number they have
in Greek is is a th right so 10,000 was
considered like ridiculous number nobody
ever got to that number so 10,000 times
10,000 if you're a literalist and so
you're going to say well that's a that's
a 100 million but that's not always
talking about and then thousands of
thousands so it's just saying this is a
number you can't get to saying with a
loud voice Worthy is the Lamb who was
slain to receive power and riches and
wisdom and strength and honor and glory
and blessing wow now a septian if you're
an American is one I know that sounds
funny but stay with me because I'm
telling you the truth here if you're an
American septian is one followed by 24
zeros if you're from Great Britain it's
one followed by 42 zeros that's right
I'm not making that up so it means two
different things I I'm telling you I
can't count to one followed by 24 zeros
and you never get there you never ever
ever get there there's a sepon there's
septillion of people and
angels that I want to be in that group
don't you I want to be in that one
worship service I've been in the little
house with five and three and I've been
in the wooden building where there was
five of
us I want to be in that
group septian number
next this may surprise you let us be
United by worship for all will worship
God with all the species and I have no
idea what I'm talking about here I'm
just reading and I just believe the
Bible Revelation 5: 13- 14 and every
creature did you hear
that now maybe you don't believe the
Bible way I do I I believe just what he
said right there amen every creature
which is in
heaven and on
Earth and under the Earth and such as
are in the
sea and all that are in
them I heard saying that shouldn't
surprise anybody a snake talked in the
garden and a donkey talked to this one
guy okay so it shouldn't I heard saying
blessing and honor and glory and power
be unto him who sits on the throne
that's the father by the way you give
greater glory to him so though you
believe the greatest thing that's ever
been is Jesus because he died on the
cross let me correct you there is a
greater there is a greater the father is
greater blessing and honor and glory and
power be unto him who sits on the throne
and to the lamb forever and ever then
the four living creatures said amen and
the 24 Elders fell down and worshiped
him who lives forever and ever that's
the father by the way in that
text now just imagine this just for a
second cuz I'm just you remember
remember how I said that doy sleepy
worship where you know you somebody had
to gouge you to keep you awake because
it was so hot and you were so stuffy and
you couldn't breathe and all the Flies
were coming in
and you remember that worship where you
stuck to the Pew you remember when you
got up you almost could
hear that was if you were lucky
sometimes those boards would come apart
it would grab you whoa you know
that happened
too simple New Testament
worship listen to me now simple New
Testament worship at its
weakest changes
lives gives us
life and we love it and we remember it
from our
childhood and we look forward to it I
look forward to being in
church not because I'm preaching I just
look forward to being with you guys to
worship our
father and we look forward to that
one great Gathering
amen that's why we need to try to figure
out a way to preach what we're supposed
to preach and that is and find a way to
be United uned and respectful as much as
possible right here right now cuz I'd
like to see everybody in that group
personally maybe you don't know about
the little brown church in the veil in
Nassau
Iowa first settlers to Bradford were in
1848 there was a lot of water there a
lot of Timber there so then naturally
Town grew there in 1855 some of the
members of the Puritan Congregational
Church began holding meetings but they
didn't have a place to meet so they met
various places they met in town halls
whatever they could meet in a storefront
whatever 1856 Bradford uh had about 500
people living there and in that time
period of Iowa a young music teacher
named William pittz was traveling by
stage
coach had done that have you I mean
neither me I was traveling by stage
Coast from Wisconsin to Iowa to visit
what he thought might be his future wife
this a true
story while waiting for the stage coach
because the horses had to be changed
because they were tired
already he walked down Cedar Street
found an empty lot where there's some
really pretty tree standing and being
kind of a romantic guy who likeed to
ride anyway
a thought came to his mind of how neat
it would be if there was a church
sitting in that bit of trees on that
particular Road and so returning home
after he got on the stage coach and went
on he wrote a poem called Church in the
Wildwood and later he said it to music
but he put it away put it in a drawer
meanwhile the church members grew tired
of meeting in a lawyer's office or in a
store or in somebody's home and they
came up with plans to build a church
building they bought some
land and when uh this preacher preacher
nutting which I'd hate that to be my
name as a preacher I'm nutty enough as
it is preacher nutting arrived the
building became serious they got some
Limestone they qued it for the
foundation in 1860 but then the Civil
War started they weren't able to finish
it by 1862 the building was kind of
enclosed and when it came time to paint
the building the cheapest paint was o
Ohio mineral paint which would protect
the wood which unhappily made it
brown with the help of some friends in
the East they got a little bit more
money they finished it they even got a
bell in 1864 meanwhile Mr pittz Mr
William pittz I told you about on the
stage coach that had come through town
years
before uh got married he was living in
Wisconsin in
1862 uh the couple moved to
Fredericksburg in Iowa an to uh because
of one of them had an elderly parent
that wasn't well Mr Pitts was hired to
teach singing classes at the Bradford
Academy which was in that
Community imagine his surprise when he
found out that the little brown
church nestled in the very trees where
he stood years before had actually been
built so at the
dedication he had some people people get
together a choir and they sang at the
dedication pits had written a song for a
church that wasn't there in a Grove the
congregation had painted their little
church Brown without ever hearing the
song or knowing about it
74,000 weddings have happened in that
little chapel the church in the Wildwood
written by William S pittz goes this way
and and the reason I tell you is
because the
Simplicity is the best
thing there's a church in the valley by
the
Wildwood no Lovelier spot in the Dale no
place is so dear to my childhood as the
little brown church in the Veil come to
the church in the Wildwood oh come to
the church in the Dale no spot is so
dear to my childhood as the little brown
church in the veil how sweet on a clear
Sabbath morning they always treated
Sunday as a Sabbath and nobody worked
they rolled up the the sidewalks on
Saturday now how sweet on on a clear
Sabbath morning to list to the clear
ringing Bell its tones so sweetly are
calling oh come to the church in the
Veil come to the church in the Wildwood
Oh Come to the church in the Dale no
spot is so dear to my childhood as the
little brown church in the veil there
close by the church in the valley lies
one that I loved so well she sleeps
sweetly sleeps neath the willow disturb
not her rest in the Veil come to the
church in the Wildwood oh come to the
church in the Dale no spot is so dear to
my childhood as the little brown church
in the veil they're close by the side of
that loved one two trees Where the wild
flowers bloom when the farewell hymn
shall be chanted I shall Rest by her
side in the Tomb oh come to the church
in the Wildwood oh come to the church in
the Dale no spot is so dear to my
childhood as the little brown church in
the veil from the church in the valley
by the Wildwood when day Fades away into
night I would Fain from this spot of my
childhood Wing my way to the Mansions of
light oh come to the church in the
Wildwood oh come to the church in the
Dale no spot is so dear to my
childhood and the little brown church in
the
veil maybe you never got a chance to go
to one of those little brown churches
some things never get
old a baby's
face the one you
love their
eyes or
worship unless you never
worshiped if you've experienced true
worship no spot is so dear in your
childhood
there's going to be one big
one I wish we were United completely
now but I look forward to the one big
one amen so let's grab that
spirit and try to respect everybody we
can and call them to the one worship
we're headed toward
