you know worship can be a sensitive
topic and that's kind of what I'm
talking about tonight and uh people can
get really twisted up about it heard
about this church denominational church
had a choir and they had a guy that
wanted to sing in the choir that could
not sing I mean he was really bad and I
don't know if you've ever seen U Andy
Griffith Show when Barney was doing that
so something like that he was singing
really bad really off
and finally the choir director went to
the preacher he was desperate and he
said to the preacher preacher you you've
got to do something with brother Jones
uh if you can't persuade him to leave
the choir I have to quit I can't stand
it anymore I'm going to quit most choir
is going to quit too so going to end up
without a choir at all and um so the
preacher went to Brother Jones sat down
with him and said I need to talk to you
and and he suggested that he leave the
choir and brother Jones say well why
should I leave and told him he couldn't
sing very well so he finally said well
several people have told me you can't
sing very well and he said well well
that's nothing preacher 50 members have
told me you can't preach and you're
still here
so I think you know it's it's hard to
actually make that complaint is it um
I'm glad we don't have choirs by the way
uh Paul David trip says and I think it's
up there maybe not Paul David trip on
this subject he says you're parenting a
worshipper now sometimes we don't think
this way you are parenting a worshipper
so it is important to remember that what
rules your child's heart will control
his or her
behavior makes sense if you think about
it just a little bit and I I think we
haven't thought of it this way and it's
one of the reasons that I've like this
study um see
every gospel believing parent needs to
ask themselves some questions here are a
few of them why do my children do the
things they
do how does change take place in my
children's heart and life how can I get
that uh how can I be a tool of change in
the heart and lives of my children and I
think the answer to all of that is
worship and I haven't really realized it
and it put it in another way it's uh
that
values um what do my children worship
most
and put it a different way what do my
children value
most so what are the young people value
one of the hardest things is this thing
that I've got up there about little
Johnny you know we we've thought I don't
know why but we've thought that little
Johnny is a
sweetheart but little Johnny does not
just want you to give him everything he
asked
for little Johnny doesn't just want God
to give him everything he asked
for he wants to be
God he wants you to Value him so much
that you give him everything he asked
for and never say
no which is like being
God the devil fell through Pride so this
is the reason the devil ended up to the
mess he's in is because of this very
same attitude he wanted to be God or at
least that's the passages that are
pointed to like Isaiah
14 and so that that's the problem if
you're little Johnny or your little
Janet or your little Jill whatever you
call them bottom line is they want to be
the boss not a
boss the boss of you not you telling
them what to do but them telling you
what to do now that that's in the purest
form obviously because there is only
one Exodus 20 and verse3 which by the
way I'm going to be preaching on here in
a few weeks I'm going to be doing a
series on attending Sunday night
services and I hope y'all really listen
to that
uh you shall have no other gods before
you okay
and I've learned a few things in
preparation for this actually I've had a
theological change of
view I know that doesn't come very often
but actually had a change of view I just
to look at for just a moment here I
think I've got it up there maybe the
next slide what is a what is a parent
who also struggles with their false gods
asz we all struggle we're not careful we
have our little false gods what do we do
uh to do what we need to do for our
children how do we help them and here's
some Concepts that uh trip
suggested know that the capacity of the
heart of your children to worship is
meant to drive them to
God know that the capacity of your
children to worship is the most
important biblical insight for parents
know that since your children are
worshippers you must be committed to
being an instrument of seeing them as
they really
are know that since your children are
worshippers a vital skill for you is to
learn how to lead them to Confession of
wrong in the process of
worship and know that to say your
children are worshippers means you have
no power to free them from their biggest
problem their own idolatry of heart and
that is the case whether you want to
admit it or not about your own children
and about yourself and know that because
your children are worshippers their only
hope is the grace of the Lord and he
must Reign on the throne of your child's
heart not some other value item and know
that our values are more like our
children's values more like them than
unlike them and we struggle with many of
the same false gods that look like us as
well by the way so what if all the
problems of our children what if our
problems really resided in our value
system and in our worship system what if
that was the case and as I studied this
I became more and more convicted about
this I actually think that's more often
the case than not the cas case not
saying that every little child in the
world struggles with it as badly as
others you may have had a little angel
that never struggled with it but I doubt
seriously your little angel was as much
of an Angel as you thought they
were so number
one gospel parents can help prevent
children falsely
valuing feelings more than the
faith that's really what's being talked
about here in this passage
you can help prevent them from feeling
Faith must never embarrass
them that's what's being dealt with he
says for I am not ashamed of the Gospel
why would you ever suggest you
were for I'm not ashamed of the gospel
of Christ for it is the power of God to
Salvation for everyone who believes for
the Jew first and also for the Greek for
in it the righteous of God is revealed
from Faith to Faith as it is written the
just shal Exodus 20 is the first time
this is mentioned Exodus 2015 but
Proverbs 29:15 we are to honor our
parents okay that is a righteous
act to dishonor parents is an
unrighteous act again don't ever
embarrass me you know spanking is more
about almost embarrassing than it is
about pain
right it's about
shame Jeremiah 6 and verse1 15 not
having uh shame not being able to blush
is
wrong people who think that you should
never be ashamed of anything are
wrong and if you haven't had shame
you're wrong if you don't feel shame for
the things you've done wrong you're
wrong for not feeling ashamed of the
things you've done wrong but when you
turn that shame around and you're
embarrassed by your parents who go to
church and you're embarrassed by your
parents who lead let's say in the
service or you're embarrassed by your
parents because they talk about Jesus
all the time that's wrong children are
embarrassed by gospel
parents and church
parents now you listen to me parents I'm
going to say something to you that was
said to somebody else a long time ago no
they're not embarrassed by
you they are embarrassed by
Christ it is the spirit that they're
embarrassed by the father that they're
embarrassed by how do I know that's the
same statement that's made virtually in
1st Samuel 8 and verse 7 to Samuel they
haven't rejected you Samuel they have
rejected me whenever you are trying to
do what's right as a parent and you are
rejected they're not rejecting you
they're rejecting him it's back to the
worship issue your false god issue so
this idea that they don't want to be
embarrassed by their parents that's a
serious spiritual problem and you can
prevent them from feeling Faith must
never suppress
them I've got to be
free really do you not understand that
it's the other way
around wake up it's not religion that
suppresses evil it's evil that
suppresses
religion Romans chapter 1 continue in
that text beginning in verse 18 for the
wrath of God is revealed from Heaven
against all ungodliness and
unrighteousness of men who suppress
the truth in unrighteousness who's doing
the suppress it because what may be
known of God is Manifest in them they
can't deny it it's within them for God
has shown it to them for since the
creation of the world his invisible
attributes are clearly seen being
understood by the things that are made
even as eternal power in Godhead so that
they are without excuse they can't run
from it but they try to suppress it so
that nobody even has to hear it they
don't want to hear it so Christ
Christians don't fight Galatians 2:5 we
don't fight but we are to resist the
devil James 4:7 1 Peter 5:9 it is our
duty to resist the devil that is when he
tries to stop us from doing what we must
do we must do what we must do period
that's it but they'll see that as
suppression but the only people
suppressing are the ones who don't want
to do it and try to stop you from saying
you should do it number next in that if
you'll see I'm still on the same point
you can prevent them from feeling Faith
must never obligate them that's critical
Romans chapter 1 goes on to say because
although they knew God they did not
glorify him as God nor were thankful
what happens is our children think they
are entitled to stuff that they deserve
more more and
more but in Psalm 78 and verse 18 God
got mad at the children of Israel in the
wilderness because not that they just
wanted to eat but they wanted fancy
stuff that's the word that's used
fancy it's not enough just to have I
want
fancy that's child problem that is a god
worshipping problem that's a value
centered problem and you could prevent
them from feeling Faith must never label
them oh how dare you label me listen to
me it isn't faith that does all the
labeling God
labels but the world labels like crazy
oh my the world labels Romans 1
beginning verse 21 because although they
knew God they did not glorify him as God
nor were thankful but became futile in
their thoughts and their foolish heart
was darkened professing to be wise
they became fools oh you should never
call a person a fool I haven't I don't
think I ever have but the Bible does if
you behave in a certain way that's the
act of a fool and those who cannot
accept a label like that are the very
ones who are the most virent of saying
things and labeling people oh you're
just ridiculously conservative or
whatever it doesn't matter there's
always a label for it I think I remember
remember there was a man hanging on a
cross and they even went back and wagged
their head and says oh you who destroyed
the temple and wag in their head you
trusted in God oh that's a real that's a
real slur you trusted in God well what a
slur so who does the
slurring so be careful you start hearing
your kids slur
people H so gospel parents can help
prevent children from falsely valuing
their
feelings more than their faith your
feelings listen to me young people your
feelings are nowhere near as important
as your
faith parents that's you you got to got
to help them you got to lead the way on
this your feelings parents when they
hurt your feelings are not as important
as your children's
Faith number next
I think it's
two gospel parents can help prevent
children falsely valuing creation more
than Creator we're in this same zone of
worship and they exchange the glory
we're in verse 23 and they exchange the
glory of The Incorruptible God into an
image made like corruptible man and
birds and four-footed animals and
creeping things therefore God also gave
them up to uncleanness in the lust of
their heart to dishonor their bodies
among themselves and worshiped and ser
serve the creature rather than the
Creator who is blessed forever amen
listen to me I'm all for you know
collecting the plastic put in the right
bin and all of that and I'm all for not
wasting hot water and whatever else and
not just going on too many Joy rides and
burning up a lot of gas but you can save
the whole world and lose your
soul that's in Matthew 16: 26 and God
did not call me to save the
world he called me to save your
soul and mine and the
world is not going to be what it is it's
going to be dissolved and another world
is coming and that's second Peter 3:
10-13 so you can try to save it all you
want it ain't going to be the way it
is so you might relax on that and focus
on on the real
stuff because what we're doing is we're
making the creation the most important
thing the creation is not the thing and
you say well then we'll all die I'm on
my fourth 12
years the world's coming to an end in 12
years Global
catastrophe my first one was in the 70s
12 years and it'll all be over my second
one was in the 80s 12 years and it'll
all be over my third one was in the 90s
12 years and it'll all be over I'm in
the TW 2000s now 12 Years it'll all be
over young people you weren't around so
you don't know we've been lied to for 40
something
years the world's not coming to an end
that way
period worship and serve the Creator not
the
creation number three gospel parent
parents can help prevent children
falsely valuing trickery more than the
truth I know that sounds strange but it
is true verse 25 who exchange the truth
of God for the lie Ephesians 4:14 talks
about you can be pushed around by the
trickery of men
craftiness if you're not careful and you
don't listen to this young people
parents listen to me you ain't teaching
this to your kids not talking this and
young people if you ain't listening to
this you can listen to all kinds of
things out here I'm just telling you the
world is full of a lot of trickery it's
not being honest with you that's like re
watching reading something on the
Internet or watching a video on the
internet and assuming it's
true false surveys surveys are designed
by Nature virtually to get an
outcome that's why there's a science
involved in doing it right and they
almost never apply
it surveys science socalled as we hear
at 1 Samu 1 Timothy 6 and verse 20 I
love science I really do I'm a big fan
of science real science I really am
always have been I'm entered science
fairs when I was in high school one
three of them so I love science it's not
something I take lightly I study all
kinds of science all the time I'm
studying science even when I ought to be
studying my Bible I'm studying science
okay and we talk about I got guys here
in the church we talk about science we a
little over in a corner we'll talk
science I love this stuff I really do
physics whatever you want to get into I
love
it but science isn't saving the
world wisdom Saves the
World uh
archaeology I'm big into it I really do
I love it you know what I know about
archaeology I've studied in enough you
know what I
know they started studying archaeology
by reading the Bible and looking for the
places guess what they found every one
of them and so this idea that the
Bible's been proved to not be true no
that's how they started because they
once believed in the Bible all the
archaeologists believed the Bible and
they went and dug it up guess what they
found it right where they said it was
every last place right where it said it
was so I'm big into real archaeology but
you read some of these archaeology
reviews now and boy they just make stuff
up boy documents I'm all for it man
we've got a lot of them 25,000 documents
on the New Testament alone so this idea
that we don't have any evidence of the
it's just not true higher critics that's
that's really a bad term it should be
lower criticism because I have no
problem with somebody criticizing the
Bible as long as they're being
honest just got to see both sides long
as you're willing to look at both sides
you can criticize it but now look look
at the other side now and I'm just
telling you we need to make sure that
our children are not just believ in all
the trickery it is your responsibility
parents to make sure they don't just
hear the trickery side cuz some of these
kids are believing in evolution and it's
not been proven period
kids period at all life does not come
from non-living matter there is no
evidence for that
zero gospel parents can help prevent
children from falsely valuing the
trickery that's out there and number
four gospel parents can help prevent
children falsely valuing naughtiness
more than the
natural I don't want to get into this
too deeply but I will share with you
some information uh when I was studying
in college I had to do a paper on
something here verse 26 for this reason
God gave them up to vile passions for
even their women exchanged the natural
use for what is against nature I will I
will tell you this statistically in high
schools now girls are far more likely
than boys to be uh
ACDC about 15% of some of the high
schools are girls involved in same-sex
attraction stuff now that doesn't mean
they're going to stay there they're just
sinning they're not just having fun
they're just
sinning and they'll leave that and get
married later most of them a small
percentage of girls smaller than the
percentage of boys it's about 1 and a
half to 2% according to all real studies
verse 27 likewise also the men leaving
the natural use of the woman burning
their lust for one another men with men
committing what is shameful don't don't
let anybody tell you differently what
they do is shameful and we can't really
talk about it can't get into the
specifics because it's that shameful and
receiving in themselves the penalty of
their error you don't have to make them
feel bad for it they already feel bad
for it I promise
you that's the reason this their suicide
rate so high receiving in themselves the
penalty of the error which was due verse
28 and even as they did not like to
retain God in their knowledge so they
don't really want to hear a sermon on
this don't want to hear so even though
what I'm telling you is the truth don't
want to hear no no no don't tell me that
I know it's not true see it's that kind
of attitude God gave them over to a
debased mind so what happens is when you
reject it your mind even goes more
debased to do those things which are not
fitting now when I was in school I was
assigned to do a study on what causes
homosexuality guess
what there was tons of work done on what
causes it did you
know you don't don't see these studies
anymore those studies go back in the
early 20s 30s 40s and
50s and then in the 60s they began to
wne but there were tons of studies tons
of them and they all pointed to the same
things and now nobody wants to hear
it but here's what causes it you want to
know what causes homosexuality I'm
fixing to tell
you here's what causes it
this confused
orientation is partly the fault of the
parents and nobody wants to hear
that that's part of the reason we don't
talk about this because parents are too
sensitive it has to be something else
and kids are too sensitive it has to I
couldn't help it it's just the way I am
no we know that's not true I mean the
studies and studies and studies prove
the same thing over and over and over
again and it makes us uncomfortable but
do you ever want to hear the truth or
you just want to hear what we're told
the trickery we're told here it is
here's the what causes it in a boy a
distant or absent
father so one of the two of those
combined with a domineering or doting
mother that isn't one of the causes
that's the cause in
boys that isn't the calls and girls
although that can contribute it to it in
a
girl so
fathers kiss your little baby on the
rear end when they're little in they're
nappy love those little kids love them
when they're coming up love them they
need to know that your boys and girls
need to connect with their daddy what
I'm really saying is daddies are
responsible number one number two is
masas are responsible don't say oh
that's just no I don't believe that Rex
I'm sorry I I ain't got a heart to hurt
you I just need to tell you domineering
and believe me there's plenty of
domineering women and then there's
plenty of doting mothers and if you're
either a domineering or a doting mother
combined with a father who's either
distant or totally absent you're
creating a scenario where what happens
I'll tell you what happens cuz my minor
was sock but that didn't mean I know
much and it's just because I'm so messed
up in the head that I even studied s but
that's really true but
so that that's an embarrassing statement
to make but it's actually true so uh
what it does is it causes an ambivalent
wish love toward the mother so what
happens is when a boy has these two
scenarios built up he ends up absolutely
loving his mother in an inappropriate
way which causes a feedback problem for
him and he doesn't know how to deal with
it
that's at the root of it it's not
genetic you don't catch
it this is it what about a girl girls
are often raised in that same
environment but that's not the kicker a
girl can be raised in that environment
and it can push her that direction but
that's not the kicker the kicker for our
girls is abuse and since one in four
girls are abused at some point in their
life you can understand how that would
develop right one in four of our young
people will probably be abused before
they get to adulthood or at least
attempted
it so when you combine the abuse in a
girl with this now if she's not abused
she may not ever go that way even though
these things
happen sexual abuse of girls is still
the same distant father or stepfathers
which is often by the way the abuse is
either by the father 50% of the time or
the stepfather 50% of the time the
others are are much lower in number it's
almost 50% and 50% it's a high number
and that's disturbing I know that you
could think that a father could ever do
that to a little girl but if she's
distant and they prove this in monkeys I
know I'm talking too long about this
they proved it in monkeys if you
separate a monkey from its child when
it's little and you bring them back
together when they're grown they will
copulate if you let them grow up
together they won't
so if you're a distant
father then you start looking at the
girl
differently that's what I said kiss the
little girls on their beeh when they you
chain their diaper CH kiss the little
boys on their beeh when you change the
diaper you need to make a connection you
need to see them in such a way that you
would kill anybody that would dare harm
them amen amen wall okay I need to move
on don't I sorry I went too far on that
apologies
I know I'm going to be talked to about
that okay so uh sorry some point you
have to just unveil the
truth
so value and feelings more than the
faith value in creation more than the
Creator Valu in trickery more than the
truth valuing being naughty more than
doing the natural
thing how do we help them how how do we
help our children parents how do we do
it well you you've seen some things I've
pointed out but the number one way if
you really want to help if you really
want to help the number one thing is you
take your children to
worship you take them to worship what do
you do then you take them to worship you
don't send them you take them you go
with them to Worship You worship to at
home
and you let them see you worshiping the
Lord God you make worship the priority
of your
family you worship the true God the true
way and it'll be the best thing that you
could possibly ever do for your children
you can't listen to me you think money
is the thing to give your children no no
no no a faith you taking them to church
that's the
thing you want to give your children the
best of of this world let me tell you
you take your children's shirt you set
them down right beside you and when they
wiggle if they wiggle too much you take
them out and wear they rear in out but
otherwise they sit right there next to
you and you don't go to children's
church why because children's church
teaches them that church is just about
fun they need to be in here and realize
it's not about fun it's about worshiping
the Lord God and this is not a joke this
is not about fun this is not about
blowing up balloons this is about
worshiping The Great I Am that's
different that's different we don't play
in
here Neil
Martin um was a member of the British
Parliament between 1959 and
1983 well we wouldn't know him but he
was once giving a group of his
constituents a guided tour in the house
of Parliament and during the course of
the visit he happened to meet Lord
Hellam now Lord ham was a big buddy
but Lord Hellam was also the Lord
Chancellor that doesn't mean anything
here I know I'm I'm I know what but you
may not know what that is but anyway he
was wearing all of his regalia for his
office he really looked like something
y'all seen I mean you can imagine like
seeing him a judge but it's fancier than
that so Lord Hellam came around the
corner wearing all of his regalan Hellam
sees Neil
Martin and their big buds
and recognizes Martin and he yells out
Neil and everybody in the group
did scared him to death did not Neil
they're in Parliament you
knil I want to talk about that just a
minute if Philippians 2:10 is true do
y'all believe Philippians 210 is a true
passage I think maybe we need to pay
attention to it says at the name of
Jesus every knee should bow of those in
heaven and those on the earth and those
under the
Earth maybe we should kneel in
worship I know we're not Catholic we
don't have the
benches and and nothing's padded here
I don't know are we honoring God the way
we
should you say it's just body it doesn't
matter really are you sure about that
why would God point out that we're all
going to
kneel the body posture doesn't matter
it's all in your heart so you believe on
the day that he comes we're all going to
be like this well in My Heart Lord It's
in my
heart
no we need to see our children need to
see us on our
knees have your children seen you on
your knees before the
Lord George
barard in a book called Experiencing God
In Worship says that the main reason
millions of Americans go to church every
week is not to worship God do you know
that says that straight up what's the
reason he says most am Americans go to
church to satisfy our or please
themselves not to honor or please
God that's some soul
searching maybe we need to do some soul
searching
parents that is so then instead of our
children seeing how we worship God
they're seeing how we
worship our values
our little
Idols they see us going way out of our
way spending a lot of money on what we
really
value so I think maybe we need to repent
maybe we need to kneel maybe we need to
and if we're not going to do it here I
know the floor is
hard but maybe at least at
home you get with your kids and you
kneel
at least
occasionally and let's let's just try to
show our children the
path you you don't make your children
become a worshipper of God you show
them you show them and you got to be one
and this doesn't need to be one of the
important things in your life this must
be the
thing not a thing
my wife my children love them dearly
they're not number
one my job's important it's not number
one right this is number one worshiping
God number one not a
sermon worshiping
God he deserves it there's no one like
him nothing to
compare he's so great we can't even
discuss him
we can't even think
there yeah on our knees show you kids
that's the place to go
worship that's where all of these things
we read in that passage went wrong
that's where your children may end up
going wrong false gods
