I don't know if you've been to the mall
you probably have likely you've been in
front of Amber cromie and Fitch and if
you have then you smelled an odor coming
out of that place it's almost
overwhelming it will almost take your
breath away uh they really put out a
smell in front of that shop and smells
good but it's uh it's kind of their
trademark smell if you've been there and
you know it's powerful it seems to me
that we might not have thought much
about what I'm fixing to talk about uh
but it is true that the Lord God created
smells he created noses uh he created
taste buds he created noses he created
ears uh everything you've got so he
decided that he wanted there to be
smells in this world that wasn't your
decision that wasn't my decision he
created smells not only did he create
smells he can smell not only can he
smell uh he does smell things and he may
actually
have a smell himself but more than that
he likes some smells and that's an
interesting concept within it of itself
and he may like some smells more than he
likes other smells in Genesis early on
we're talking the family of Noah verses
20 and 21 after the flood's over with
then Noah built an altar to the Lord and
took of every clean animal and every
clean bird and offered burnt offerings
on the altar and the Lord says it says
the Lord smelled a soothing or oh well
that's just anthropomorphic you don't
know that more than I do and with what
I'm fixed to read to you might change
your mind in just a minute and the Lord
smelled a soothing Aroma then the Lord
said in his heart I will never again
curse the ground for man's sake it meant
something to him in Exodus Exodus
Ephesians 5:2 one of the last times this
kind of statement is made it says as
Christ also has loved us and given
himself for us an offering and a
sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling
Aroma isn't that interesting so it's as
if God has a sense of a sweet smell but
apparently God even has his favorite
smells this text is about that we read a
lot of it we read the whole thing so
what do kind of let you take a look at a
couple of these uh the smell of his
anointing oil is talked about here in
Exodus 30 verses 32 and 33 it shall not
be poured on man's flesh that means just
indiscriminately on anybody nor shall
you make any other like it according to
its composition it is Holy that means
other separate separate from anything
you know and it shall be holy to you
that is other different separated verse
33 whoever compounds any like it or
obviously they could have looked at the
recipe in this text and got up something
similar or whoever puts any of it on an
outsider that is not an Israelite shall
be cut off from his people this is
special smell and it's a special smell
of anointing oil that was just designed
for anointing priest and the like
there's also the smell of burning
incense it's his incense apparently it
says in beginning of verse 37 but as for
the incense which you shall make you
shall not make any for yourselves this
isn't to take home this isn't for you to
enjoy on a regular basis and it becomes
something that's just regular in your
house your house just smells of this no
this will not be that way according to
the composition the incense which you
shall make you shall not make any for
yourselves according to its composition
it shall be to you holy for the Lord
that means absolutely other only for God
verse 38 whoever makes any like it to
smell it just to sit and smell it he
shall be cut off from his people that's
how special these smells are going to be
now think about it just a second this
message seems to be that a visit to the
Tabernacle or a visit later to the the
Temple of the Lord would be unlike any
other experience you'd have in Israel
you would smell something different you
would never smell that in anybody's
house you would never smell it somebody
decorating themselves with perfume you
would never smell these smells these
smells you would smell there and
nowhere else any other place was
forbidden to make it for yourself just
to enjoy forbidden to smell like that so
everybody know where you've been
forbidden not to do it why why did God
want for his people in this
text that he
still might want for
us now I'm not talking about the smells
now but I am talking about the concept
okay let's walk through 10 things you
wanted 10 points tonight right here they
are God seems in this text
to want his people to keep an
experience you've got to come to this
conclusion a special worship experience
you can't come to any other conclusion
you have to at least admit that and not
only that you've got a god seems to want
his people to keep and experience a
unique worship you're not going to find
this anywhere else you won't find this
at a pagan Temple they might have smells
but it won't be this one this is unique
God seems to want his people to keep and
experience a holy worship he makes this
really clear this will be holy to the
Lord it is to be other not like anything
else this is to be holy more than that
he seems to want his people to keep and
experience a sacred worship this smell
just the smell which means the
environment he wanted that to be sacred
and to be unlike anything else God seems
to want his people to keep and
experience a different worship unlike
any other worship experience they might
ever have in their life they want never
have this except there that's it God
seems to want his people to keep and
experience a non casual worship what do
I mean by that well if you could have it
at your house if you could put it on you
it's just something you have all the
time it's this it's that we're all just
this we're casual about it maybe we're
too
casual about our God have you ever
thought about that maybe he wants
something so special that we are too
casual about our God God seems to want
his people to keep and experience a
sensory worship now a lot of us would
say oh I don't know about that but a
sensory worship that means that all of
our senses are heightened why he wanted
their senses heightened to that maybe
we're a little bit too uh laidback when
we come in here more than that he seems
to want his people to keep and
experience a pleasant worship this smell
must have been really nice both smells
either you're talking about the incense
or you're talking about the anointing
oil it must have been nice and they must
have thought boy that really smells good
I don't think it smelled bad so it
smelled good so it's a pleasant
experience God wants your experience to
be in worship a pleasant experience
would he care about that apparently he
did God seems to want his people to keep
an experience a rare worship so rare
that's the only place it occurred maybe
we are not keeping this as rare as it
would be more pleasing to him
God seems to want his people to keep an
experience a protected worship what I
mean by that I mean that it's so to stay
like this that you start messing with it
and changing it and adding to it or
making your own little thing that's not
to
happen What happens if you do it cut off
you can't even come here and worship
anymore now I want you to think about
that imagine if we had an attitude like
but that seems to be his thinking
protect it don't let it change protected
now such thinking May should even guide
our
worship approach today obviously we're
not going to use the smell well he
forbid it anyway so we wouldn't be doing
that we're not going to bring in incense
it's Old Testament we're not going to
bring that in we live in the New
Testament so that's not the point I want
you to get the essential idea underneath
the point so it's not to
upset that we are different In Worship
I think sometimes people get upset you
know we're not like everybody else out
like there you know if if we were more
like then we'd bring more people in if
we had a more worldly or or churchy I
mean you've seen it on TV if we had more
that then more of them would
come and I don't think you're picking up
on
this uh we're not to be like anything
else and we're to be glad about
it what a thought and not so casual
about our approach to worship maybe
we've become too casual about our
attitude about our
cleanliness you had to bathe before you
went to the um Mount Si you remember
that told them they had to bathe before
he would come down what about our
clothing have we been become so casual
that we don't even have church clothes
anymore is that where we are now you say
well that's not what it's talking about
that's right it's not talking about
clothes I agree but I'm talking about
casualness see he wanted his worship
special are we getting where it's not
special at
all that in fact I wear my best clothes
to other things but not here just think
about it not so jealous jealous of the
noise I'm jealous of man their worships
Rock
us not so jealous of the
movements if your hands aren't up you're
not
spiritual
right of the jargon you don't say the
cool things the way they say
them or
maybe just the modern Trends so maybe
not so quick to want to turn turn the
sacred into
common or casual or
Blas and maybe that's what we've
done but you know you have to decide
that for yourself I'm not going to dress
you next Sunday I'm not going to your
attitude straight before you walk in the
building I just want you to think about
it why was this so important you ever
thought about
it
why yet there may be something else here
so I going to go just a little deeper
can I go a little deeper I'm going tell
you a story it's true
story it was
March and it was cold and it was in
Dallas doll doctor walked into a hotel
room where Diana blessing that was her
name Diana
blessing was uh groggy from surgery they
had to do an emergency
C-section to take her baby it was March
the 10th
1991 complications after 24 weeks of
pregnancy meant there had to be an
emergency
cerian the baby that was born was 12 in
Long the name was
Dana Dana L blessing she weighed one
pound 9
oz the doctors told him she'd never
walked she' never t talk she'd never
hear she'd never be able to think
straight she's likely to die at any
moment there's too many things 24 weeks
nobody survives 24 weeks y'all know this
you may have lost a baby near that
age so they wanted to do everything they
could but the baby was so
tender even though the mom was there
24/7 she couldn't hold the baby to touch
the baby would hurt the baby skin was so
soft the baby would cry you could even
tear the baby's skin almost from
touching
it so what the mom wanted to do is hold
the little
baby she couldn't dad couldn't hold the
baby the
incubator but they were there day and
night but as she stayed there and tried
to take care of the baby the dad was
getting funeral arrangements made
talking to different people talk to the
church cuz they that's what the doctor
said she's going to die she's going to
die any day she'll die any day she'll
quit breathing tonight her heart will
stopped something will go wrong she's
not going to make
it she made
it she's not only made it she's as
healthy as any kid out here she's a
miracle what we would call a miracle
she's fine nothing wrong with this kid
plays happy go-lucky as it can be I'm
just getting too the part that's good
okay so hang with me just a
second she went home just like the mom
kept saying it's going to happen
everybody was wrong with the mom Dana is
a petite feisty little girl she's got uh
gray eyes and a zest for life she loves
everything no sign whatsoever of any
physical or mental impairments like they
said would be there I guess they didn't
know what they were talking about I
guess God stepped
in one
blistering Hot Summer
Afternoon they were at her older
brother's baseball game in 1996 in
Irving Texas Dana was sitting with her
mom they were in the stands and they
were on the bleachers watching the
game and all of a sudden Dana stopped
chattering
stopped playing
around and she suddenly hugged herself
like
this started doing
this and she said to her mom do you
smell
that and her mom smelled the air said
yep smells like rain y'all smelled rain
coming right that ozone smell smells
like
rain and the little girl closes her
eyes and she says do you smell
that once again her mother said yeah I
think we're about to get wet we're out
of this game and it smells like rain and
we're about to get
wet she's still caught up in the moment
little girl Dana is still like this with
her eyes
shut and she said
uh
um
no smells like
him smells like God when you put your
head on his
chest mom says is that what
happened we couldn't hold her we prayed
for her
constantly did God hold
her is that what
happened how does a little girl think
she knows what God smells
like maybe we're wrong maybe he has a
smell maybe it smells like the rain I
don't
know but I think whatever you think
about that story God smells things and
he might just have a
smell and it might just be this smell
but you know I don't know that but I
will tell you this I think we are to
respect what God respects
it might just turn out that you if you
don't you're
disrespecting his favorite
thing is that what you want to
do
disrespect his favorite
thing maybe God puts on after shave that
smells just like the rain I don't know
or maybe God smells like that all the
time but that little girl was convinced
she knew what God smell like
I think smells
matter but that's not what I'm talking
about and if I have to explain it at
this point I have really failed tonight
if you want to be careful about your
respect toward God this is the place to
be
it this is the place to be it if you're
not right with God maybe it's time to
respect what God respects repent of your
sins confess the name of Christ be
baptized
make sure your Worship Is Right won't
you come if you need to while we stand
and while we sing
