good evening church doing okay had a
good day yeah I think it's been a great
day amen been a good day considering we
all had to have a time change today I
think it's been a great day uh looking
at I I don't know if you're aware but
this is number two in a four-part series
on uh finding our purpose and so U
that's what we're into tonight and so
without getting into much more stuff
before that let's just go ahead and
break into if you would uh let's uh
begin though with a word of prayer Pray
With Me Oh Holy Father uh you sent uh us
into to do your will uh father we are
called uh to go out in every nation
across the land and to reach Every Soul
on this planet to every single country
every ethnic group father it's our call
it's a call to all who would dare swear
allegiance to the Cross of Christ and we
swear that Allegiance father at any
price when we are baptized showing that
we have died to ourselves so there is no
price too high for us to pay we told you
that that day uh we've tried to not only
do that but we've received the call to
be truly humble in your presence uh to
live our lives as responsibly as we can
to deepen our devotion uh to the cross
at literally any price father so uh we
pray that you'd help us to see that our
purpose is your purpose uh and that we
really only have minor purposes Beyond
whatever you've called us to do so we
pray that you'll help us to see all of
the purposes you have for us in this
world it's in the name of Jesus we pray
amen I was reading uh this story the
other day because I think uh there is a
purpose for our life but uh some people
think their life's meaningless and
sometimes that is overwhelming for some
people and they've taken their life
thinking there was no meaning to life I
like this story I've told this story to
a few of you I think there was a
Scotsman that was demonstrating the new
game of golf at the time to president
ulses as Grant and the Scotsman stood in
front of the president and placed the
ball on the te very carefully took a
mighty swing and there's a lot of dirt
and grass flew in the air but the ball
was still sitting on the tea so he took
another swing and dirt and grass is
flying all over the president and uh all
over him and everything so nothing he's
still the ball setting there six swings
later there still just dirt and grass
flying but the ball's still sitting
there finally the president who' been
waiting patiently to see this game uh
trying to be composed he stated quietly
well there seems to be a fair amount of
exercise in this game but I fa see the
purpose of the ball and uh I've always
liked that story uh Rick Warren who did
that book you some of you I'm sure have
seen it maybe read it purpose-driven
life he says well if you're alive
there's a purpose for your life I think
he's right about that um so why do we go
to
church why do we go to
church what is the purpose for going to
church are you an under churched person
upset and
hurting and overwhelmed my life you
could use more
Church you're seeking a true
friend seeking a word from God
tonight A word of encouragement from the
Lord a Word of Wisdom a word that maybe
makes things make more sense that maybe
makes your
life make more sense maybe you came
seeking a
prayer or are you an overchurch
person you're upset and you're hurt and
you're underwhelmed with what happens at
church the song leader was either too
fast or too slow or too high or too
low the songs were too old or too new or
too up or too
down the prayers were too long or Too
Short or too theological or too
simple-minded the readers were too quiet
or they were too loud or they were too
uh funny in their accent or they
mispronounced a few
words the communion leaders were use
wrong words to express it maybe not
quite theological maybe some bad
grammar said me and him in the wrong
order questionable use of scripture was
in
it maybe the atmosphere it just is too
oldfashioned it's too legalistic or it's
too new it's too
um out there Progressive it's too cold
it's too hot in the building it's too
bright it's too
dim it's too loud it's too
quiet the preaching was not good gospel
preaching it was too negative was too
doctrinal or it's too liberal or it's
too
conservative I need you need to
understand at any given moment just in
case you're not aware we were taught
when I was in school between three and
6% at any given moment want you
fired so just because you might be out
there and wish I was gone
that's
normal that's just the way it
is and uh some are sitting there saying
well when is he going to resign or get
fired or retire it'll happen soon or
now so what do you come looking for have
you ever thought about
it I hear so many things said I wonder
what'd you come
for you understand what the question is
it you're under churched and you really
need it or are you over churched and you
just worn out with
it we're blessed I think thinking our
purpose is to critique worship a't that
a great blessing that we think it's our
duty to come here and tell you what's
wrong with it in fact I know that must
be the purpose because we certainly
leave and do a lot of it don't we amen
amen
walls amen we certainly do a lot of it
I'm in that I do it too hey I'm in it I
think we live in world where you can see
any kind of service you want to see on
TV now and know that it was done with
more money and with better uh skilled
people than we use it certainly looks
brighter and
fancier so if you want a betterlook
church service it's out
there uh we live in a world where we are
babied with 8 seconds did you know
that's what it's operating off now it
used to be be 30 then it got down to 15
and now it's at 8 you're baby with 8C
video that means every 8 seconds the
video you watch no matter what you're
watching if they know what they're doing
has changed the angle something changes
every 8 seconds because they know that's
how bored you get that quick you are
bored that quick now you have an 8
second boredom on your cell phones your
YouTube videos you're bored that quick
we live in a world of 18 minute TED
Talks where the best and the brightest
in the world will come and speak on the
best and the brightest topics in the
world and you can hear literally the
best on their subject anytime you
want and you know you can we live in a
world where we can be inspired by the
literally the best and the brightest
preachers in the Brotherhood you can get
on your YouTube
and you can watch any preacher in the
Church of Christ now almost all the
major Churches of Christ in the
Brotherhood are streaming or have a
recorded and you can watch it you just
hand them in may be looking if you
didn't know that but it's out there you
can watch them they're there and it's
not just that but you can watch the best
and brightest in Christendom out there
at any given moment so it would be very
easy to say if I can see that and it's
that good why in the world am I doing
here
Philippians 4 and:
8 all that's just for you to think about
okay that's that wasn't getting on to
you may it sounded like it's getting on
to you I just I bet you had thought
about
it I think about it Philippians 4:8
Brethren whatever things are true
whatever things are noble whatever
things are just whatever things are pure
whatever things are lovely whatever
things are of good report if there is
any virtue and if there is anything
praiseworthy meditate or or think on
these things we're going to look at
Romans 8:28 just a little thought
provoking time so and and I want to
encourage you when I get through go home
reread it think on it some more I hope
it just stimulates your
thoughts um I think if you meditate on
it you might see a few things I won't
point out
tonight I'm going to try to be brief
tonight that only means that I'll be
more brief than I would have been had I
not said that uh there are only four
ideas that I want to share tonight okay
four ideas and let's get to them okay
number
one knowing God's power reveals our
purpose how powerful is he verse 28 and
we know that all things work together
for
good that's pretty
powerful and then thus our purpose if
you're filling in this blank based upon
that concept is to work together for
good see if we're going to do what God
makes everything
do if God makes everything work together
for good we must work together for
good now Philippians 1:27 says that you
stand fast in one spirit with one mind
striving together for the faith of the
gospel thus my purpose your purpose is
to
work
together for good if that's what God's
doing and he's making all things
wouldn't he want to make us work
together for good so your first purpose
in this
text is to work with your brother next
to you and your sister next to you
number next knowing God's people reveals
our
purpose it goes on to say to those who
love God to those who are the called
according to his purpose what a great
thing to say about the people of God
they love God and they are called
according to his purpose there that
means that you and I if we really love
God are trying to fulfill the purpose
that God has for us and that we are
trying the best we can to love God and
one another thus our purpose is
to those who love God and are called
according to his purpose our purpose is
to each other those that love God we
need to be a part of their life and help
them fulfill the will of God listen to
First John 5:2 but by this we know that
we love the children of God that's each
other right what John talk about love
one another right over and over again
that's that's his whole message okay by
this we know that we love the children
of God when we love God and keep his
Commandments you know how I know you
love me is if you love God and you do
what God
says how you'll know I love you is I
love God and I do what he
says because if you really love God then
you got to love those who love God right
amen that's it how simple is that so one
of your purposes one of my purposes is
to love you who love God number next I
told you this is simple Stu number next
knowing God's predestination reveals our
purpose what do I mean by that well just
read verse 29 for whom he fornew he also
predestined so thus our purpose is to
know this to know he forew us and
predestin us why is that
important you don't need to believe this
is a half Hazard thing if you think this
is a haphazard thing you think your fate
is in your hands and that you are
absolutely the de the one who decides
everything about your life that's not
true that isn't even close to being true
you had no control over being born you
had no control over your parents and
most of the things that's happened up to
this moment you've had little to know
control over you may think you've got a
lot of control but you've got literally
very little control like for example
there's some of you sitting there going
I'm
hungry you don't have control over that
or I'm thirsty what control over that
and I bet nearly every one of you is
breathing right now and you got no
control over that one there's a lot of
things out of your control but to know
it Ephesians 1: 4 and 5 says he chose us
in him before the foundation of the
world that we should be holy and Without
Blame before him in love having
predestined us to adopt in his sons by
Jesus Christ himself here's what my
purpose is my purpose is to know that he
knows and that he's in control I need to
I need to know that he knows and know
that he's in the ultimate control when
you think you're in the driver's seat
you don't know what your purpose is your
purpose is to fulfill his purpose
because he's in the driver's seat and
you know he knows and he fornew you and
he fornew all of us number last that's
in this
text knowing God's purpose purpose
reveals our purpose knowing God's
purpose reveals our purpose in verse 29
says he he did all this so that we would
be to be conformed to the image of his
son that he might be the firstborn among
many
Brethren so what's our purpose our
purpose is to be conformed to the image
of his son Colossians 3: 10 puts it this
way put on the new man
who is renewed in knowledge according to
the image of him who created him so how
do we become more and more conformed
well he's working on us I know that but
the other way we are being conformed is
that we get to know his image and the
more we know his image the more we can
be conformed to that image so my purpose
is to conform to the image of Jesus
Christ that just means I need to pick up
Jesus ways and try to
imitate his ways his words I need to
imitate his words his deeds I need to
imitate his deeds his thoughts I need to
imitate his thoughts everything about
Jesus I'm to conform to that image
that's my purpose so it's really simple
but here's the summary of what we just
looked at I'm not done with the lesson
so don't get too excited all right so it
says for our purpose in God's is in
God's purpose that is knowing God's
power helps reveal our purpose working
all things together for good knowing
God's people reveals our purpose that he
wants those people who love God and who
are the called according to his purpose
and we need to love those same people
and then knowing God's predestination
reveals our purpose that is knowing that
God has this in his hand and you and I
don't and so we believe he knows and
knows us he knows us all too well and
then knowing God's purpose reveals our
purpose which is to get us to be
conformed to the image of his son that's
the reason all this was
done now first though we must become the
called that is talking about in this
text Galatians 3: 26- 28 says this for
you are all sons of God how through
faith in Christ Jesus so the first thing
the way we got that way is it was
through faith we didn't get it
accidentally we had to believe and then
verse 27 for as many of you as were
baptized in Christ
I put on Christ so Faith led to baptism
which led to us putting on Christ or
being in Christ verse 28 says there is
neither Jew nor Greek there's neither
slave nor free there is neither male nor
female for you are all one in Christ
Jesus that means there is a group of
people that we are allocated to that we
are a part of if you're not in a church
or a part of a church you're not
fulfilling this commandment so it means
that we begin with faith we have to be
baptized and we have have to be a part
and associate with a body of Believers
otherwise we may not be the call that
he's been talking to the call according
to his purpose and then verse 29 and if
you are Christ then you're Abram seed
and heirs according to the promise that
means that's the people going to heaven
the ones who have faith the ones who've
been baptized who associate themselves
with the Brethren those are the ones
that are going but then we must fulfill
our life's purpose let me walk you
through them one more time to work
together for good good to those who love
God and are called according to his
purpose I need to be working with them
and love them to know he fornew us and
has predestined us to be the people that
we are and to be conformed to the image
of his son so these purposes are what
will give you your purpose that is if
you want to do the will of God and I I
can't imagine somebody showing up on a
Sunday night is probably in a different
category probably the people who want to
do that and so if you fulfill that then
you find true Joy because true Joy is
found in purpose you I have a purpose
you're miserable George Bernard Shaw was
quoted he's been quoted several times
but he's he he died back in 1950 he born
in the 1800s so uh he was quoted by a
guy named John Johnston in the book
courage you can stand strong in the face
of fear and this is what he said
according according to him in this and
I'll I'll give you another quote it says
this is true joy in life uh the being
used for a purpose so listen let me read
that again this is true joy in life the
being used for a purpose recognize by
yourself as a mighty one that's a mighty
purpose the being thoroughly warn out
before you're thrown on the scrap peat
and being a force of nature instead of a
feverish selfish little CLA of ailments
and grievances complaining that the
world will not devote itself to making
you
happy I want to read that again yeah you
need to hear all that cuz I think he's
striking us right between the eyes with
that this is the true joy in life the
being used for our purpose recognized by
yourself as a mighty one a mighty
purpose the being thoroughly worn out
before you were thrown on the scrap peat
and being a force of nature instead of a
feverish selfish little CLA of ailments
and grievances complaining that the
world will not devote itself to making
you happy the world doesn't know the
less that but we owe the
world I think we need to seek our
purpose listen to what he said later he
said I want this is George Bernard
Shaw I want to be thoroughly used up
when I I die for the harder I
work the more I
live was talking to Keegan this
week about
1989 back in 1989
um I was
uh I won't get into why this happened
this week but anyway back in 1989 I was
trying to make a decision about whether
or not I was going to do Mission work I
did not want
to uh there was no desire in me quite
honestly my wife knows this very well I
had no desire to leave local work no
desire to go to
Africa it was not in me at
all
um but a series of events
happened uh got series of letters from
various people I don't know if my wife
was plotting against me or what but I
got these letters from people you may
have heard I got a letter from Tex
Williams alorn and some other people
trying to get me to go and do Mission
work um and then this album came out and
I was already a big fan of Steve Green
y'all heard me quote Steve Green before
and an album came out called uh the
mission album that same year while I was
praying about it and thinking about it
studying about
it and so then I decided to to go to
Africa but the there was a poem one song
that I used everywhere I went when I was
raising money and by the way on tell you
raising money for Mission work is the
hardest thing I've ever
done yeah it's the hardest thing because
it seems
selfish it seems personal it seems
selfish and it seems like it's
Feathering my cap right and everybody
looks at you kind of
funny and uh and I did all the things
they taught me to do stand at the back
door put a $20 bill in your hand and no
it's no but I was told to do things like
that but this song So struck me that it
was part of the reason that drove me to
do it and it's called the refiner
fire and it still Cuts me up to even
read
it there Burns a
fire with sacred heat white hot with
holy
flame and all who dare pass through its
Blaze will not emerge the
same some is
bronze some is
silver as some is
gold then with great skill all are
hammered
by their sufferings on the Anvil of his
will the Refiner's
Fire has now become my so
desire purged and
cleansed and
purified that the Lord be
glorified he is consuming my
soul refining me
making me
whole no matter what I may lose and I
had no
idea I had no idea what I was saying
when I said that no matter what I may
lose I choose the Refiner's Fire I'm
learning now to trust his touch to Crave
the fire's
Embrace for though my past with sin was
etched his mercies did
erase each time his purging cleanses
deeper I'm not sure that I'll
survive yet the strength in growing
weaker keeps my hungry Soul
alive the Refiner's Fire has now become
my soul desire purged and cleansed and
purified that the Lord be glorified he
is consuming my
soul refining me making me
whole no matter what I may
lose I choose the Refiner's Fire had no
idea that I'd lose my
mind had no idea that I'd even live to
come
back
purpose do you really want God's purpose
to be your purpose I didn't
you say well you do now
no
no it scares me to
death it'll scare you too if you lose
your
mind it's scare you too if you nearly
die but it's the only way to be happy in
Jesus
is to seek his
way do you really want God's purpose for
your life you know
what we may say we
do I think we struggle with
that and I don't I'm not trying to pick
on you I promise you I I can't bear up
underneath the stress of it either but I
want to be able to do
that I guess what I'd say is I want to
want to follow his
purpose but I don't know if I
do if you need to come come while we
stand while we
s
