now you may think that Christ is not
Mighty that you haven't seen that aspect
of it but the influence of Christ alone
has been mighty Upon This World let me
just give you one example of his mighty
influence upon us as human beings it
comes from uh cecy Sanders she was a
British nurse uh a social worker
and back in the
1950s uh she came to become a believer
in Christ and become a Christian in
England but at that time because of her
faith in Christ she began to notice how
the hospitals had no idea what to do for
patients who were
dying yeah no one thought that way by
the way uh the doctors would simply tell
the family there's nothing more that can
be done
you may have even heard statements like
that nothing more can be done for the
suffering well because of the influence
of Christ upon her lives she refused to
accept that that nothing more could be
done for those suffering and dying so in
1961 she opened St Christopher in
London it was there where they did
pioner research yeah somebody had to do
this work they did the pioneer research
on using morphine for pain
control but not just you know when
someone was in terrible pain but when
pain control as you approach death she
believed quote you matter because you
are you you matter to the last moment of
your
life her work helped create a new
speciality in medicine called paliative
care
2005 she died from breast
cancer but she was taken care of by
hospice which she had basically been the
instigator
of sometimes you forget the mighty
things that have been changed by the
mighty power of God to make this a
better world that we live
in the ter Mighty God might bother some
disciples expressing Christ as deity
that shouldn't be the case but sometimes
even Disciples of Christ struggle with
what we're talking about but Jesus is
called God by other inspired writers uh
John called Jesus God and I think in
John chapter 1 is probably the most
critical passage on this point beginning
in verse one in the beginning was the
word and the word word was with God and
the Word was God he was in the beginning
with God and all things were made
through him that is the word without him
nothing was made that was made and verse
14 and the word became flesh and dwelt
among us and we beheld his glory the
glory of the only begotten of the father
so that is the story of Jesus but not
only that but Thomas I mean even though
he doubted he called Jesus God John
20:28 and Thomas answered and said to
him my Lord and my God Paul called Jesus
uh the Christ Our Lord Romans 1 ver4 ver
Colossians 1 verse uh 18 says that in
all things he might have the preeminence
and explained why he would say such a
thing as that when he said in Colossians
2:9 for in him dwells all the fullness
of the godhead bodily so the godhead is
in the presence of Jesus the psalmist
called the Messiah God's son when he
said in psalmist 2 vers Psalm 2 verse 7
I will declare the decree the Lord that
is all caps that means the yhw T
grammaton the Lord has said to me you
are my son today I have begotten you the
psalmist also said called the Messiah
that he would be called God in Psalm 45:
6 and 7 your throne oh God is forever
and ever a scepter of righteousness is
the scepter of your kingdom Your Love uh
you love righteousness and hate
wickedness therefore God your God has
anointed you with the oil of gladness
more than your companion so it's without
question that the psalmist is calling
the son of God God and the Messiah God
King David did the same thing he called
the Messiah his Lord in Psalm 110:1 it
says the Lord that's the Tet Graton L O
R D which is referring to the father and
to said to my Lord which means someone
above David who would be his Lord sit at
my right hand till I make your enemies
your foot stol now the Hebrew writer if
you want to move away from what I'm
talking about this morning and you get
bored turn over to Hebrews chapter 1 and
just spend a moment reading while I'm
talking verses 5 through1 13 and you
will have no doubt that the Hebrew
writer is advocating that Jesus Christ
is God and that's a critical thing to
take note of but more than that by all
accounts Jesus called himself the Son of
God in Matthew
26:
63-64 says and the high priest answered
and said to him I put you under oath by
the name by the Living God tell us if
you are the Christ the son of God and
Jesus said to him it is as you said
that's as straightforward of an answer
as you can give Jesus says of himself
that he was less than God the father
while on Earth he says in John
14:28 my father is greater than I and he
says in John 20 and verse 17 my God he
calls him my God but Philippians 2 verse
6 says he did not think it was wrong or
inappropriate to attain or call himself
equal with God what are the proofs that
it is right to call Jesus the Christ
Mighty God what what should we be
looking at when we're talking about such
things I want to just run through a
quick list I'm not going to get into
these detailed but look at this his
eternality we told that he was before
the world began his mutability he
Hebrews 138 points that he's the same
yesterday today and forever his ubiquity
we're told that he would be with us
where two or three are gathered so he's
here with us even right now that means
he's everywhere at once his Infinity we
are told in John 2 and verse 26 that he
knows our prayers our tears our wants
our sins our hearts before anybody tells
him anything and then he's literally
like a hybrid we're told and in 1
Timothy 2 and: 5 for there is one God
and one mediator between God and Men the
man Christ Jesus so he was a man and he
was God there's only one been like that
and we're told also in job
9:33 he wanted someone uh someone who
may lay his hand on us both so that took
someone special and that is the god man
Christ Jesus and we ascribe to him
dignity that we don't ascribe to anyone
else when it says I'm the bread of life
the light of the world the door of the
sheep the Good Shepherd the resurrection
in the life the way the truth and the
life the True Vine such things as that
are not applied to anyone else so based
on the inspired writings of the
scripture I mean there's plenty of
evidence it's actually foolish if you're
one of those disciples who's struggling
with looking at Jesus and saying Mighty
God
then you need to get over your struggle
because it is clear without question
that he was God In the Flesh and that
kind of strangs her thinking you know
Murder is slaying a
man
idolatry is like killing
God but both can be forgiven according
to Matthew 12:32 you can blashe God and
even be forgiven but if Jesus was not
the Son of God though know then his
death was actually deserved and he got
just what he deserved if he wasn't the
Son of God CH Spurgeon wrote to me
probably one of the best little quick
essays on that I want to read this is
just take a minute let me read it to you
and I think this speaks straight to this
point if you're struggling with this I
want you to believe when you leave here
Jesus Christ should be called Mighty
God if if Christ be not the Son of God
then is our preaching Vain and your
faith is also Vain and ye are yet in
your sins all of our visions of Heaven
are blasted and withered the brightness
of our hope is quenched forever that
rock on which our trust is built turns
out to be nothing better than mere S at
the Divinity of Christ be not proved all
the joy and consolation we ever had in
this world and our belief that his blood
was sufficient to atone for sin has been
but a dream of fancy and a figment of
idol brains all the communion we have
ever had with him has been but an
illusion and a trace and all the hopes
we have of beholding his face in glory
and of being satisfied when we awake in
his likeness are but the foulest
delusions that ever cheated the hopes of
man and can any of you believe that the
blood of all the martyrs has been shed
as a witness to a lie have all those who
have roted in Roman dungeons or have
been burned at the stake because they
witnessed that Christ was God died in
vain if Christ be not God we are of all
men the most miserable to what purpose
is the abuse endured day after day to
what purpose are our repentance our size
our tears to what purpose is our faith
to what purpose our joy and our rejoice
ing if Christ be not the Son of God will
you put yourselves all down for fools
can you imagine that God's word has
misguided you that the prophets and the
apostles and the martyrs and the Saints
have all Leed together to lead you into
a trap and to delude your soul or God
forbid that we should think such a thing
there is no Folly in the world that has
in it so much as compared with the Folly
of denying the Divinity of Christ and
then professing to be followers of
Christ he is mighty God Isaac watts in
one of his songs he wrote a lot they
were all great let Everlasting glories
Crown he said in the third verse let all
the forms that men
devise assault our faith with
treacherous heart let them do
it listen to me let them throw
everything at
us listen to
him let him throw it all at
us let all the forms that men
devise assault our faith with
treacherous
art will call them vanity and lies and
bind the gospel to our
heart we don't believe their stuff they
can say whatever they want in fact make
it louder we still believe amen we still
believe so from his word John 14 I want
us look at just three simple reasons we
should call him Mighty God
okay number one we call him Mighty God
for there is no promise too hard for him
to
secure all the promises that he made he
can secure them make them happen John
14:1 says let not your heart be troubled
you believe in God believe also in me
and my father's house are many mansions
if it were not so I would have told you
I go to prepare a place for you and if I
go and prepare a place for you I will
come again and receive leave you to
myself that where I am there you may be
also and where I go you know and the way
you
know he
can and he will keep his
word it's been mentioned two or three
times already the Lord Jesus said he
would
return 2,000 years that's nothing make
it a
billion make it a
trillion in his promise is still true
it's no harder for him to do it in a
billion years than it is in a day if all
are in grave are coming forth and he's
coming forward for us so with this
greatest Miracle of all All Souls that
have ever been rising from the dead
that's the greatest miracle that we will
have ever seen he is coming back how do
I know that because he's the Mighty God
and there is no promise too hard for him
to secure
number
two we call him Mighty God for there is
no person too hard for him to save
that's good news for you if you're
sitting there saying ah you know you
don't know me you don't know what I've
done yeah you don't know me and you
don't know what I've done either what
does that mean that just means you're
just like
me and I'm just like you but listen to
John chapter 14 continuing verses 5- 11
Thomas that doubter remember Thomas said
to him Lord we do not know where you're
going and how can we know the way how
can you know the way to a place that I
don't even know where you're going
that's pretty earthy question verse six
Jesus said to him I am the way the truth
and the life no one comes to the father
except through me the only way to heaven
is through Jesus that's it amen he is
the only way verse seven if you had
known me you would have known my father
also and from now on you know him and
have seen him wait a minute who have
they seen they saw
him listen verse eight Philip said to
him so Philip scratching his head over
here listen to all this and he goes uh
Lord show us the
father and it is sufficient for us I
mean you said we've seen him verse n
Jesus said to him have I been with you
so long and yet you have not known me
oo that's deeper than it sounds Phillip
he who has seen me has seen the father
by the way it's not talking about with
Earthly Eyes by so how can you say show
us the father do you not believe that I
am in the father and the father in me
the words that I speak to you I do not
speak on my own authority but the father
who dwells in me does the works believe
me that I am in the father and the
father in me or else believe me for the
sake of the works
themselves Hebrews 7:25 makes it clear
he can and he will save to the uttermost
there's no doubter like Thomas there's
nobody that doesn't believe at this
moment that cannot be reached even the
doubter sitting here right now and I'm
talking to you and I do not know who I'm
talking to you're sitting here and
you're
doubting he can save you has nobody here
he can't save because he has that power
and he's able to save to the uttermost
but you don't know what I've done yeah
he does and he can save any and all so
we call him Mighty God for there's no
person too hard for him to save and then
thirdly we call him Mighty God for there
is
no problem too hard for him to solve
that's good news I think don't you think
that's good news think about it let's
read what it says John 14 veres
12-4 most assuredly so without question
this is true most assuredly I say to you
he who believes in me the works that I
do he will do also
also and Greater Works than these he
will do does that include us well it may
in a different sense because I go to my
father verse 13 here's the point and
whatever you ask in my name that I will
do that's pretty good pre promise that
the father may be glorified in the son I
do it so the father be glorified in the
son you asking Jesus Jesus name now you
begin to understand why we say in Jesus
name at the end of a
prayer verse 14 if you ask anything in
my name I will do
it
so there's nothing too hard nothing too
great he says whatever anything whatever
anything whatever anything what could
you think of therefore that's not in
whatever or
anything what problem could you possibly
have that isn't covered in whatever or
anything he can and will solve any
financial problem any medical problem
any spiritual problem any emotional
problem that's within his will
absolutely no question he has the power
because he is known as mighty God Mighty
God a summary of this is simple there's
no promise too hard that he cannot
secure it for you and me there's no
person too hard for him to save and
there's no problem too hard for him to S
you know at times like this this is
Christmas right it's the end of the
year and I don't know about you but
there's a lot of money going out of my
pocket have y'all noticed
that I don't know what's up about it
something about my pocket gets real
leaky about this time of the year lot of
money going out the door and because of
that maybe this doesn't happen to you
but when enough goes out you start going
wait wait are we
sure why because I got to pay bills
right I got we we're going to eat right
we're not just going to buy gifts we're
going to eat at Christmas right cuz you
know how much money you got right you
know and you don't well you could touch
savings but you're like I don't don't
want to do that I don't know it's that
bad yet so you're like uh so what that
does I to me it makes me like when I am
hungry may maybe y aren't like this but
when I'm hungry don't speak too sharply
to
me is anybody else like that I get you
know you know does any women don't get
like that but men
it when the when in other words when
when the supply grows small tempers get
larger so these are times like that it's
the end of the year we just came through
an election that was a little bit
tense yeah some of y'all still feeling
it little
chance I don't know if you noticed this
but when families get together everybody
doesn't necessarily play fair
everybody's not sweet
always you're not sure if you want
Brothers my brother or my sister or my
cousin or my aunt or my grandpa or my
grandma I'm not sure I are they going to
play
nice is everybody going to be
sweet and tensions go up again I'm just
suggesting to you that at this time of
the year when it gets colder everybody
starts getting sicker have you noticed
that there's a lot of coughing in here
and sneezing and right and
everybody are you beginning to feel what
I'm saying this is this is like a
miserable time of the
year where's this ha happiest season of
all
stuff I'm like everybody oh no and then
I mean there's problems there's there's
serious health problems that nobody
knows how to solve and then you you feel
like you know I'm a little rickety right
now my whole thing's a little in
shambles what a better time to
recognize the mighty God we
serve and that we need him amen we
really need him and we need somebody to
Pilot us a straight course through this
there's a story told by Robert Lewis
Stevenson it says that there was a ship
back in the day
that was near the rocky coast and the
wind it was a storm it was blowing the
ship straight toward the Rocks I mean it
looked bad well somebody down in his
cabin decided he was going to go up and
talk to the captive or something see
what's being done because it looks like
we're going in the Rocks which means and
it's winter time we're going to freeze
to death we're going to die right here
right now everybody on board we're just
going to die we get into the Rocks so it
was actually dangerous because the Seas
were so rough and the storm was so bad
it was just dangerous he took his life
into his hands to get out of his cabin
to make his way up to the pilot house
it's
dangerous if he falls over he's gone
right so he finally gets there and the
door closes behind him and the storm's
raging and he looks over and the
steersman at the
wheel and he's turning the ship away
from the Rocks he can tell what he's
doing he didn't said anything and the
steersman doesn't say anything the
steersman hears the door shut and turns
slowly and looks at him and
smiles and he knew we'll be
okay we have a mighty God that knows
exactly what he's
doing I don't care how rough it gets
this year trust in him he's the one
piloting your ship you need to learn to
relax a little bit there's a great calm
available to you if you can just
recognize that he is that decisive
leader he in should in you inspire calm
he guides us through all the dangers of
this life how many things have I clo
come close to but God got us through
amen the Mighty God has been with us all
along if you have not got on his side
yet you would make not just this season
but the rest of your life a lot sweeter
if you need him we'll help you find him
if you'll come forward while we stand
and while we sing
