what a wonderful Psalm
amen I hope that uh before we get
through we'll be able to catch out of
one verse just one verse something that
will bless you tonight uh dealing with
uh a new series it's kind of a series
going to be touching on the concept of
fear a few weeks um I want to give you
peace I think one of the things that
sometimes missing in our life is peace
that calm assurance that Blessed
assurance that Jesus is yours and so uh
I hope that we'll be able to do that in
the next few weeks uh tonight we're
looking at the first at least in at
least three part there may be a little
bit more than that coping with our fears
uh before we go any deeper um God bless
you for being here appreciate all of you
you know uh Sunday night crowd's a
different group thank you God bless you
before your faithfulness um good evening
church let's
pray Holy Father uh we always need you
every
hour please don't let our hearts
fail because of
fear uh do not allow us to be
paralyzed by fear
father when Dark Days come hardness
comes which comes into all of our life
we've all already experienced much hard
hard times we've already experienced
loss of people that we love we've
already experienced downs and negatives
and hard moments some very scary moments
even father help us to not be
afraid help us to live our life with a
calm Assurance father that Blessed
Assurance father that
we have a calmness unlike everyone else
help us to not
be one that Satan could even begin to
devour help him to see
us and move on and leave us be bless us
in this study father we ask it in the
name of Jesus our lord
amen coping with our fears Jerry
Seinfeld I'm not funny but he's supposed
to be right you didn't have to agree to
that anyway Jerry Seinfeld said uh
according to most
studies people's number one fear is
public
speaking the number two is
death
death is number
two does that sound right I'm still
quoting Jerry Seinfeld This means to the
average person if you go to a funeral
you would rather be the one in the
casket than the one doing the
eulogy that's
bizarre I just look at a list of
greatest fears that some had the courage
to share because it's even kind of
intimidating to share your fears
strangely enough sometimes you can't
even do that but this is a list of uh
and and I didn't cover them all there's
quite a few here and they're just people
from all over World an from India said
my greatest fear is that I will die
alone Dan from Sweden said losing my
social structure that is my work my job
my my many
acquaintances uh Sur from Spain said my
deepest fear is being alone without
family or
friends Mary from Japan said my greatest
fear is look back and regret not having
done something because I was afraid to
do it
Carvey from the Philippines said I fear
being negatively scrutinized by others
Steve from Australia said not being
successful financially is my greatest
fear Sarah of the United States said my
biggest fear is the is being left out or
abandoned or
ignored Lena from Sweden said death that
I or someone in my family will die Eva
from Ireland said said my biggest fear
is that I won't be able to have children
or my children will be born with serious
medical conditions Allan from the United
States said my greatest fear and sorrow
is not being accepted for who I am
Daniela uh of the United States said my
greatest fear would be missing out on my
purpose here on Earth whether it's
because I wasn't motivated enough to
pursue dreams or distracted with life in
general I know I have a purpose that I
am not yet
serving Bruna from Brazil said my
greatest fear is the loneliness Kate
from Australia said being a failure and
a disappoint disappointment to both
others and myself is my greatest fear
Reena of the United States said raising
my daughter alone after my husband
passes away is my greatest fear Robin of
the United States said my greatest fear
is to never finding true happiness Joe
from the United Kingdom said my greatest
fear is that I will never be
enough Josephine from Sweden said my
greatest fear is that more people that
the more people that I love they will
all
die Sophie of Australia said I fear
looking back and seeing that fear guided
all my
decisions and then ra of Australia said
I'm scared that I will make the wrong
decisions in life if I make the wrong
choices it will set me back from my my
true path and Annie of the United States
said the return of cancer is my greatest
fear and some of those y'all probably
you actually know those ink life gave
the top 10 fears they claim that they
claim hold people back from doing the
things that they really want to do in
this life it was written by a lady named
Moren and these are the top 10 number
one
they fear
change number two loneliness number
three failure number four rejection
number five just uncertainty number six
something bad happening number seven
getting hurt number eight being judged
by others number nine inadequacy and
number 10 a loss of
Freedom now that doesn't cover
everything we fear so if we if that were
everything be different but it's not you
have to add to that we have phobias a
lot of people sitting here right now
have phobias I have phobias I'm scared
of you know high places because I don't
fall like everybody else if I'm on a
bridge I go up about 10 ft and then I go
out 10t before I start falling down
that's the way it feels to me and if you
don't believe that just ask my family
I'm not making that up and then there's
ptsds if you ever had one you know what
it is you don't you don't know what it
is you don't know how bad it is or panic
attacks You' ever had a panic attack
you'll never question anybody that has a
panic attack again because it's not like
what you think it's not just oh I've had
a bad day it's not like that at all it
it is irrational but you can't stop it
and I've had those the most basic though
of all of our fears if you listen to
kind of what we just went through one of
the most basic fears that we all seem to
have is fear death that seems to be
something you know when it's number two
according to Seinfeld but anyway it's
it's a it's a fear that we all have but
when you study what the Bible says about
death it actually makes it I hate to say
this sound even scarier I don't know if
you you've done much study about death
but it gets kind of scary uh Psalm 234
was read a moment ago I just touch on it
and we're going to talk a little bit
about that verse tonight though I'll
walk through the valley of the shadow of
death but if you walk through the valley
of the shadow of death without fear
that's truly coping with your fears I
mean that's like the ideal thing a
Christian just walking into death I mean
we've got to go there right wouldn't it
be great if we could just walk through
it right with great confidence but
listen to there's more to death than you
might have studied that's kind of scary
uh in the shadow of death are are those
behind its gates and doors and no I
don't know what that means job
38:17 have the gates of death been
revealed to you or have you seen the
doors of the shadow of
death no I don't know what that talk
about but it makes it sound worse than
it how about this in the shadow of death
there are those
sitting and those chained are bound with
iron Psalm 10710 and 14 says this those
who sat in darkness and in the shadow of
death bound in Affliction and IRS he
brought them out of darkness and the
shadow of death and brought their chains
and broke their chains in pieces here's
an interesting one in the shadow of
death there are those who are walking
and those who are dwelling Isaiah 9:2
the people who walk in darkness have
seen a great light this is quot in the
New Testament those who dwell in the
land of the shadow of death upon them a
light has shine
I'm not saying any of that means as bad
as it sounds I'm simply saying is death
is kind of scary and when you read some
of the stuff it says about it it doesn't
make you feel ever better it actually
sounds more scary it's probably not as
bad as what I just made it
sound but it does sound that way and so
there's no there's a real reason why we
got to go O Death right there's
reasons David by inspiration reveals in
one verse and we're just looking at
verse four so if you got your Bible turn
to Psalm 23 we're going to look at just
one verse here okay just one and let me
get over to that y'all seen all this and
we'll get to that number one we can cope
though with our fears when we know his
promises it
says and this is not going to make
everybody happy what I'm going to teach
tonight I understand that it's okay you
can get mad at me but just listen
because I'm I'm going to evoke something
in you uh ye though I'll walk through
the valley of the shadow of death I will
fear no
evil okay that's what I want you to
focus on I will
fear no
evil now the promise that we should
believe but we struggle with is Psalm
91 Psalm 91 1 talks about this in verses
9 and
10 because you have made the Lord who is
my refuge even the most high your
dwelling
place
no evil shall befall you nor shall any
plague come come near your dwelling now
somebody says are you taking that
literal listen to me
carefully this is my point I can't
answer all your
questions but it doesn't nullify what I
just said and what we just
read excuse me to those who do not
believe God's promises of protection and
provision no provision will give lasting
trust or
fearlessness but you need to believe no
evil there are endless questions to ask
oh I can ask billions and you can too
about sickness about disease about death
and about
evil
no
evil I think you need to rest in that
you said well how can I with all these
questions I have in my head now see
that's what I'm trying to do get you to
calm your questions and believe that
somehow God works that out I don't have
to work it out I don't have to answer it
I don't have to figure it out we cannot
learn to cope with our fears if we're
unwilling to Simply believe some things
that I can't explain that's what I'm
trying to get at you have to learn to
believe some stuff that I can't explain
I'm just going to believe a promise no
evil I will fear no
evil I'd be worthy almost of saying
maybe we should try it I will fear no
evil so maybe say it with me me I will
fear no evil wow ain't that a nice
thought so we can learn to cope with our
fears if we don't doubt his promises
okay that's first promise I want you
look second thing I want you to
see we can cope with our
fears when we know his
presence because it goes on to say we're
still just Psalm 23 if you've got your
Bible open there what it continues to
say I'll start at the beginning again
yay though
I walk through the valley of the shadow
of death I will fear no evil we just
said that why for you are with
me there it
is the
presence we should trust is critical
Isaiah 43:5 puts it this way fear not
for I am with you I will bring your
descendants from the East and gather you
from the West this is a prophecy about
end times more than anything else but
the idea that God has not abandon them
and he will not abandon you fear not I
am with you now here's the
question here's the problem with me
saying it just like a minute ago I can't
answer all your questions here's the
problem I can't stop you from wanting
more so I just you you need to just
believe his
promises but you also need to believe in
his presence but I can't stop you from
wanting more to those who being with God
is Not
Enough and and I'm talking to some of
you sitting here for some of you God's
not
enough to give you Fearless calm and
comfort and
peace nothing will be
enough nothing if God's presence is not
enough nothing will be enough and
nothing will calm your fears there is an
endless list of things that people want
and they want it more than they want the
presence of
God that's right that's why most our
people aren't here
tonight what's the
reason uh what are on the list
money Fame
power sex lust sin
evils they want
it and if you want that more than you
want his presence you're not in his
presence when you have an opportunity to
be in his presence you go to that thing
whatever that is maybe it's just
watching TV or eating snacks around the
TV or hanging out in the back porch
whatever it is we cannot learn to cope
with our fears if we doubt his presence
presence we cannot learn to cope with
our fears if we doubt his promises no
evil we cannot learn to cope with our
fears if we doubt his presence for you
are with me simple truths let's go to
the third
one we can cope with our fears when we
know his purposes this is probably the
hardest one we're dealing with tonight
because this is the one that gives the
the most headaches to almost everybody
and it's caused more atheist than
anything else there are more people who
are atheist and agnostic because of this
concept because they've never really
dealt with it in their head they think
they're so smart and they never thought
this through they're not so smart after
all it says yay though I walk through
the valley of the shadow of death I will
fear no evil for you are with me your
rod and your staff they come for me pick
up on what two different things here A
rod and a staff you know what those are
for your Rod God's rod and God's
staff uh the purpose in God and what he
does we need to
see but we don't want to see that
sometimes Isaiah 10 verse 5 I love this
passage it's actually talking about
Assyria and how God's going to end up
punishing Assyria because Assyria went
too far but it says what God had used
Assyria Syria far it says woe to Assyria
the rod of my anger and the staff in
whom's hand is my
indignation so a rod predominantly is
used to spank quip beat into
submission a staff is made to poke and
move along get you back in line poke you
neither one of them are Pleasant neither
experience is something you want to have
you mean God has a rod amen yes and God
has a staff yes
absolutely and here's what we want we
want a god with a
feather and with whipped cream and jelly
beans here's what you want take it be
happy and here's the truth I can't help
Perfect People
as a preacher I really can't help
Perfect People Perfect People I guess
are just doomed I don't know perfect
people who think God's at fault and
they're
not that God did the wrong thing but
they
didn't how many people you said I can't
believe God allows
War I can't believe God allows suffering
I can't believe that God allows children
to die they're perfect you see God's not
as perfect as they are and that's the
way they really think they really think
they think more perfectly than God and
they aren't even trying to understand
the scriptures they're not even trying
to understand what God's doing they
don't like the idea of a rod and a staff
they don't want to discuss the tree of
knowledge of Good and Evil they don't
want to talk about the fact that we made
choices oh no no no no no no God should
have fix it all giving me my jelly beans
and my feather and giving me a pillow so
to those who cannot see God's
purposes and will not see
them and hand in Negative they see these
negative events and they never see
positive events they can never have the
comfort of being
unafraid because you see they don't they
think it's all out of control there is
no purpose I've heard people deny Romans
8:28 all things work together for good
oh that doesn't mean that and the reason
is because it scares you to death that
God might actually be in
control because if God's in control I
shouldn't have had cancer if God's in
control I my aunt shouldn't have died
and it's all his fault and he's mean and
he didn't do what he he didn't do what
for me there are endless criticism and
charges that can be thrown at the feet
of God if you only want God to do what
you
demand and to those in this life who are
like that they will never not be
anxious they will only fear everything
because they don't see any purpose in
anything there can be no purpose in it
don't tell me there's purpose in it
folks listen to me if you really think
like that what are you doing here
seriously if God has no purpose if
everything is out of control and God
doesn't do any of this
stuff do you do you not understand that
that basically denies everything we
stand for
if there's no
purpose have you not thought that
through this becomes
baloney there is purpose and I don't you
don't have to get it you don't have to
understand it you don't have to receive
it but you have to believe that there's
purpose you need to believe
that unless you just want to be scared
all your life and live your life scared
to death because of that's that's what
it'll do to you
there's no purpose in it it'll scare you
to death we cannot learn to cope with
our fears if we doubt his purposes
simple lesson look at this this is it
look at these are really simple just in
this one verse coping with our fears we
can cope with our fears when we know his
promises no evil his presence the Lord
is with us and his purposes hey uh the
re there's a reason for using his rod
and there's a reason for for using his
staff and none of us want to talk about
that because all we want to talk about
is God blessed me this week God gave me
a
new we don't ever want to say God
corrected me this
week now thus we learn we can cope with
our fears as long as we have hope in God
is what I'm really trying to say Hebrews
chapter 6: 17-9 says this thus God
determined to show more abundantly to
the ER of Promise the immutability of
his counsel that means he can't lie
confirmed it by an oath which makes it
doubly true that by two immutable things
he doesn't lie and he can't break his
oath in which it is impossible for God
to lie we might have strong consolation
who fled for Refuge to lay hold of the
hope we have before us you can't have
hope if you don't believe the three
things we talked about tonight this hope
we have as an anchor of the soul both
sure and steadfast which enters the
presence behind the veil I want to tell
you a story about uh this Kurt Richard
down here uh Kurt Paul
Richard he was at Harvard and John
Hopkins he's educated a biologist and a
psychobiologist never heard of that
before and a geneticist uh he served his
years as the Director of John Hopkin's
psychiat atric Clinic he's a professor
of psychobiology began his professorship
back in 1957 the ER was
born he made many important
contributions to the field of biology
and psychobiology one of the most famous
experiences experiences experiment
excuse me most famous experiment he had
if he did it today he'd go to
jail and I'm going to brag on it his
most famous experiment was drowning
rats now I don't know people put you in
jail for harming a child child not a
child but an animal a puppy or whatever
now you don't they don't do experiments
like they used to do but he drowned a
bunch of
rats and how it was a it was a study he
drowned a bunch of
rats and there's what he did he got a
container of water a tub and he drop a
rat in it now I don't know if you know
this but rats can swim a long time did
you know that I mean like how long do
you think you can swim 10 minutes 20
minutes 30 minutes rats can swim on
average 50
minutes rats swim 50 minutes that's how
they get on boats and stuff they didn't
swim a long long time you didn't know
right probably didn't know that so rats
can swim 50 minutes on average so he
dropped rats in into a tub without any
way of getting out of it and he timed
them right 15 minutes in they gave up
when they realized they couldn't climb
up out of the tub and sunk to the
Bottom now I just told you they can swim
for 50 minutes but that's not what they
did they swam for around 15 minutes and
they quit and they drown just like that
just right to the bottom so he thought
well it must be connected to the sense
of hope right so he thought well maybe
you know there's a way to test if that's
about hope so what he did is he put the
rats in and he let them swim for the 15
minutes and when it looked like they
were about to give up and go down he'd
reach down pull them up and hold them
out let them breathe for a minute and
drop them back
in and then they swim for a few minutes
he reach down pick them up pull them out
drop them back
in they average 60 Minutes for before
they
drown 60 minutes because
suddenly they had
hope and they could
swim what I'm trying to talk about
tonight is a simple thing it's really a
simple
thing you want to be able to live your
life without
fear you have to have
hope that's
it that's how you keep from being
afraid what is your hope your hope is no
evil but I'm I've got cancer and I'm
dying no evil why well that doesn't make
sense to me no
evil no
evil you say well what does that mean I
don't know but I'll tell you this I
don't want any evil with me when I
die I don't want any evil around me at
all I want to face it in no evil I'll
tell you something else the Lord is with
me what I want when I'm passing out of
this world to know the Lord's with me
whatever my greatest fear is I want the
Lord to be with me simple hope that no
evil and the Lord will be with me and
then more than that that even when I'm
experiencing negative Rod staff and its
negative feeling right that there's
purpose there's purpose
that I have the hope that I am not just
a crazy animal trying to make it through
this world but I'm a child of God and he
is working in my life and he may be
poking me with his staff or he may be
spanking me with his Rod but I believe
God has purpose this isn't just blind
masses of chaos but God's working in
this world so if I suddenly shift my
mind just a little bit and I
think I believe I have the hope of no
evil
happening I believe I have the hope of
God's presence being with me I I believe
I have the hope of even when it's a rod
in a staff that there's a purpose in
it sometimes life is going to feel like
that
bucket it's going to feel just like that
bucket 15 minutes I can't take it
anymore but if suddenly I believe these
things I might just feel God's hand
reach down underneath me lift me up just
a little bit and I might go on another
15 minutes and then I and then I might
just feel like the Lord reaching down
just a little bit and I might just go on
did you know his his rats went over 60
minutes and none had ever been counted
that went more than 50 before that see
what hope
does you can last you can face your
greatest fears if you have hope but you
got to really believe God's engaged in
this with you because if you're on your
own you're just in that
bucket and it's
scary and it's
hard but if God's with you
all your greatest fears can be subsided
so fear not if you're not right with god
let's get right you need to come forward
we'll help you every way we can that can
be fixed we can work on that but you got
to change your heart to deal with your
fear if you need to come come while we
stand and while we
sing
