sometimes we can
overthink something and get it wrong
because we overthink it so it's like
you've probably heard this how do you
pronounce TW Wa A lot of people will say
TW and then how do you pronounce tww twe
how do you pronounce Twi Twi and how do
you pronounce
twwo to yeah so but our inclination is
to keep doing the same thing same thing
happen happens when you hear someone say
uh if people from back home areall
folk and the name of the 11th president
was
Poke what do you call the white of an
egg that's Aben yes it is the yellow of
the eggs it's called Yol so it's like uh
a lot of things we if we're not careful
we'll quickly jump and we'll overthink a
thing and conspiracy theories are much
like that conspiracy theories arise from
overthinking seeking someone to
blame uh it's not a new thing you may
think conspiracy theories and the use of
that term has just been around a little
while it's not so uh the first record
that we know dates back at least to 1863
we think it started uh in full-blown in
1881 at the assassination of President
James A Garfield it it's the way our
mind kind of works we want to fill in
the blanks we don't like that little
blank where we don't know exactly how it
happened and so we want to fill in that
blank which sounds Innocent but it's not
really conspiracy theories are therefore
hard to disprove because it's about
information none of us really
have uh they're
captivating and they feed a a narrative
that's confusing and we kind of like
that believe it or not
let me give you an example you may not
know this but Abraham Lincoln's coffin
was
moved not
once not twice not three times not five
times not 10 times 17 times that's real
that really happened his coffin has been
moved 17 times so conspiracy theorist
just love that oh it's got to be
something what's being hidden what's
going on actually just had to do with
construction and getting him into a more
permanent location that's all that was
but if you don't if you want to go down
that route you can go down that route
the moon landing is a good example of
that right it's hard to believe and so
people go that way here's the thing
Satan's conspiracy is real so there are
real conspiracies and his conspiracy is
absolutely real there really is a devil
and he absolutely intends to
discombobulate all that you believe in
to try to make you not believe to make
you confused look at these scriptures
how many times does it say it I mean
it's obvious he uses his schemes he uses
lies he uses effects human effects that
we tend to naturally have and that's
what we're going to focus on today just
a few of them John 8:48 the devil is a
liar he's the father of lies in Genesis
3:4 we see that first lie Satan said to
the woman you surely will not die he
knew that was a lie told it anyway
second Corinthians 11 the serpent
deceived Eve by his craftiness he knew
it was a lie job 10 the schemes of the
wicked in Psalm 37:7 it says who carries
out wicked schemes so these are
conspiracy schemes they're real and if
you think they aren't going on you're
mistaken and they're going on against
you personally you
individually Psalm 41 my enemies if he
comes to me he speaks lies so the devil
will lie to you with people you know
Isaiah 32:7 his weapons are evil he
devises wicked
schemes in 2 Corinthians 2:1 Satan we
are not ignorant of his schemes well
maybe some of us are and that's the
reason for the lesson you need to not be
ignorant of the schemes of the devil in
Ephesians 4:14 his craftiness in
deceitful scheming so he is planning he
is making conspiracies he is going
against you Ephesians 611 we hear of the
schemes of the devil so I'm not making
this up there really are conspiracies
going on around you it's just probably
not the things that you've heard are the
conspir
since human effects and weaknesses and
by the way we have quite a few
weaknesses that the devil can take
advantage of I'm going to talk about
some today that you and I all have it's
not just that we have descended from one
who sinned and therefore the curse lies
upon us but rather there are actual
weaknesses built into our system you may
not be aware you have built in
weaknesses and those weaknesses some of
them I'm going to point out today that
the devil takes advantage of all the
time and you've seen evidence of it I'm
not going to you're going to know what
I'm talking about today when I get
through you're going to see it you're
going to go oh yeah yeah yeah yeah I can
know that John 8: 31- 32 then Jesus said
to those Jews who believed him if you
abide in my word you are my disciples
indeed and you shall know the truth and
the truth shall make you free there is
one way to make sure you don't fall prey
this this is it that's it you're looking
for something else uh John 17:17
sanctify them by your truth your word is
truth but I will say that there is one
other way of getting help so you have
the Codex that's the scriptures but you
also have creation itself creation
itself speaks truth it glorifies God
there really is a God and it's obviously
true if you just look up and look around
that's just all it takes but we'll see
why people don't do that in just a
second but then there of course there's
the Christians we sit in church with
most of the people you're sitting around
would never lie to you never never think
about that people out there in the world
you can't say that but the people here
most of these people like 99.9% would
never lie to you we'd only tell you the
truth ain't that a good feeling that's a
good thing to have so I want to look at
seven of these weaknesses these effects
that Satan uses against us and that you
may not have been aware of and they're
real and they're documented in science
so if you question it just stay with me
the first one is called the Dunning
Krueger effect this is a real thing it's
not make believe the Dunning Krueger
effect is a real effect that humans have
it is an effect where you have a
cognitive bias that occurs when someone
overestimates their knowledge or their
skills to overestimate your knowledge or
your skills it's when someone lacks the
confidence that they think they have and
they're actually more incompetent than
they truly are they might enter a race
thinking boy they're going to do great
and not even get into the top 100 that
happens to people a lot shakespare says
the fool to think he is wise but the
wise man knows himself to be a
fool a lot of people overestimate their
ability let me you one this is a really
good story it's by the guy name is mar
MacArthur wheeler this really happened
it's not make believe January the 6th
not that January the 6 January the 6
1995 January 6
1995 uh M MacArthur wheeler walked into
a branch of the bank of the melon Bank
in Pittsburgh he walked in he did not
have anything over his face he didn't
try to avoid the cameras he walked in
with an automatic weapon he walked over
to the counter and demanded money he got
$5,200 he didn't even act like he's
trying to avoid anybody he walked out of
the bank of course he's being videoed
the whole time you know how that works
so he walks out of that bank walks just
down the street gets in his car goes
down the street just a little ways to
another bank similar Bank walks in the
same way walks up to the teller with his
automatic weapon give me your money got
his money walks out nothing goes down
the road just a little ways to another
bank goes in robs them goes home he is
shocked he is surprised when his picture
appears on the news that night and
they're knocking on the door when he get
they get to the door he says but I wore
the juice he had come to the conclusion
because we know that lemon juice kind of
is an invisible ink that if you rub that
on your face your face becomes
invisible that's this done in Krueger
effect when you think you know something
that you don't know when you over
estimate your abilities you overestimate
your intellect and you think that
doesn't happen let me give you one our
text look at this James 4 come now you
who say today or tomorrow we will go to
such and such a city spend a year there
buy and sell and make a profit whereas
you do not
know what will happen tomorrow for what
is your life it is even a vapor that
appears for little time and then
vanishes away instead you ought to say
if the Lord Wills we shall live and do
this or that but now you boast in your
arrogance and all such boasting is evil
let me encourage you to include if the
Lord Wills out of
humility and out of not falling into the
Dunning Krueger effect spiritual over
confidence has got a lot of people in a
mess when it comes to bible stuff so do
not allow the devil to deceive you with
this effect number two this is real it's
called the Barnum effect the Barnum
effect is named after PT Barnum PT baram
you know Barnum and Bailey Circus it
celebrate he he celebrated hoaxes really
and so it's also called if you want the
fancier name it's called the forer
effect and it's it was it's when an
individual predominantly is given a
fairly substantial accurate grade to
summarize their
personality uh kind of believe to be
tailored to them to exclusively say
something like uh they'd like to hear
it's basically an obscure vague
generalization these things are used
every day in astrology fortune telling
graphology and personal tests a lot of
these personal tests that you may have
taken to Define what your personality
type is there's a bunch of baloney now
listen to me I'm just telling you the
truth I'm not trying to be ugly I'm not
taking aside here I'm trying to get you
to understand most of them are
subjective invalidation and they have no
scientific background at all and they
could have been written about everybody
and the guy forer that I mentioned his
name is Bertram R forer he's the
psychologist that that gave name to this
also other than the the barn effect and
BAS basically how he did this is he
conducted a test and which he went to a
news stand he got a description from an
astrologer in the news stand he then got
a group of students and he had them take
this test supposedly each of these
personality tests were specifically
designed for each student and the
personality he could already observe in
them that was all a lie he did not do
that what he did is he took the thing
off the news stand he applied it to
every single one of them just as it was
written there and he asked them to rate
how accurate it was in validating what
their personality really was like the
score of a maximum of five came at at
4.5 every one of them thought it was an
absolute perfect description of
themselves why because it boosted their
ego made them look really good and they
liked it a lot human nature is to see
that things are a little better than
they appear that make we feel it in the
best light we like to be seen in our
best light regardless of the truth 2
Thessalonians chap 2: 10 through2 says
and with all unrighteous deception among
those who perish because they did not
receive the love of the truth you see
there are people who want to know the
truth even if it tells them they look
ugly did not receive the love of the
truth that they might be saved and for
this reason God will send them strong
delusion how does God send a strong
delusion it helps them believe what they
already want to believe that's nothing
wrong with that God send a Reign on the
just and the unjust makes the unjust
believe they're
right either way and for this reason God
will send them strong delusion that they
should believe the lie that they all may
be condemned who did not believe the
truth but had pleasure and
unrighteousness this is a real
phenomenon and it's called
self-justification and when anything
sounds like it justifies me for being
the way I am without me having to change
or generalization saying positive things
about me like a a cookie from a a a
Chinese restaurant telling me what I
want to hear about me well then I love
it it's my thing we want great things to
be spoken about us and to believe good
things about us and you are mistaken if
you listen to that very
closely so do not allow the devil to
deceive you with the Barnum effect
number
three it's the placebo effect now most
doctors don't use this uh because it can
be dangerous in fact I would say the
very few will use this method now in
former years it was used quite a bit
when a doctor did not have a
psychological degree but thought you
were having uh psychosomatic illness
they would give you a
non-descriptive virtually ineffective
medical drug like a sulfur drug or
something like that and it would be he
would tell you it will help whatever
problem you've got especially if he saw
you to be uh dealing with a
psychosomatic illness and it really
wasn't anything that was wrong and so he
give you this thing and supposedly it's
going to cure you and you suddenly it
would be a wonder drug for you and you
would get well and you say well doctors
don't do that anymore and in generally
doctors do not do that anymore but it is
a real phenomenon and people tended to
get well when they got medicine that
they thought was going to make them well
ain't that interesting people tended to
get well well well let me let me just if
you think that that doesn't go on now
it's called
vaccines it's called covid drugs some of
you kept
around you said well but those really
work how do you know
how do you know because we don't know
and we don't know what work do we let's
be real honest we don't know what work
do we yeah but a lot of us got well
didn't
we thus the
psychosomatic thing it's called a
placebo a spiritual Placebo also exists
that's right there is such a thing as
spiritual
placebos spiritual placebos are when you
get strengthening or you get healing
from defective or inferior Bible
teaching and don't think that doesn't
happen that's happening right now all
across America right now in churches all
across America this morning people are
getting
strengthening and they're getting healed
today and it's all up here and it's not
real sorry to burst your bubble but
that's a real thing it's the placebo
effect in spiritual matters in First
Kings chapter 18 I'll show you how it
kind of plays out I'm going to start in
verse 21 1 Kings 18 and Elijah came to
all the people and said how long will
you falter between two opinions if the
Lord is God follow him but if ba follow
him but the people answered him not a
word now Elijah said to the prophets
Baal choose one bull for yourself and
prepare it first for you are many and
call on the name of your God but put no
fire under it so they took the bull
which was given to them and they
prepared it and called on the name of
Baal from morning even till noon saying
oh Baal hear us but there was no voice
and no one answered then they leaped
about the altar when they had that they
had made so it was at noon that Elijah
mocked him and said cry aloud for he's a
God either he is meditating or he's busy
or he's on a journey or perhaps he is
sleeping he must be awakened verse 28 so
they cried aloud and cut themselves now
wait a second would did you accuse these
people of not believing there was a
connection between the things that they
observed in their life and what they
were
doing
yeah they saw a
connection they really did and as it was
their custom with knives and lances
until the blood gushed out on them and
when midday was passed they prophesied
in the time of the offering of the
evening sacrifice but there was no voice
no one answered
no one paid attention here's the truth
just because you believe a thing doesn't
mean it's
true and you need to be aware of it by
the way that applies to all of us
sitting
here so do not allow the devil to
deceive you with the placebo effect even
if it relates to your spirituality don't
always assume you know exactly what a
thing
means number
next if it'll turn
there it goes it's called the
patternicity effect now this effect is a
real effect you've seen it you've
observed it it's been a part of your
life it's also called epiphania and
peridia it's it's it's an effect we all
are aware of you just may never heard it
call this before but basically it's when
we see faces in the clouds we see little
animals in the clouds you see a giant
laying out in the cloud right you've
seen all this stuff right seen
butterflies in the cloud angels in the
cloud you've all seen it I know you have
and you've seen it in wood grain
sometime you just sitting there looking
at the door and all of a sudden you say
hey look at there what is that see in
the wood grain of a doorway or you see
it in a burnt tortia this actually
happened October 1977 Maria Rubio a
burned or tortilla I guess that's what
you say it I probably said it wrong oner
Skillet my my Spanish ain't all that
great and it resembled the face of
Jesus and so it led to the called The
Shrine of the
tortillon and you can go see it to this
day since 197 7 is still on view pretty
good Jesus face that she burned in it
accidentally it's like these you ever
seen these Ghost Hunter shows and they
let you listen to these EVPs you ever
heard of that EVPs and he it's bad you
know say you know it's just even it's
basically chaotic random noises that are
recorded and suddenly you think there's
something talking over there there's a
ghost in the corner and then you see a
shadow move and it's all over with you
know it is true now well Michael br
which I'm not a big fan of his but he
gave a talk about this subject at Ted
Talk it's called the pattern behind
self-deception and here's what he said
essentially we are pattern Seeker
primates I'm going to cut to the Chase
he said pattern is the which he coined
the term said that's the tendency to
find meaningful patterns in both
meaningful and meaningless Noise We tend
to just we're just pattern Seekers and
we do it all the times I don't know why
we're built this way but it's kind of
like you be walking down down the street
all of a sudden you go hey I know that's
John and you weren't even looking for
John right or there's Susie what I
didn't think we were going to see Susie
we're in New York how do we see sus that
happens all the time so we must be
designed to see patterns but we tend to
see patterns and what we do listen to
this because your eyes are doing it
right now as you're looking at me you
may think you see everything in this
room but you do not right now you have a
blind spot on this side and a blind spot
on that side your eye does not see this
area about right in here cannot see it
your eye cannot see it it's blocked but
you see it because your brain fills in
the Gap that's what's happening but you
can observe a blind spot what I'm
telling you happens is that's what you
do you the thing doesn't quite fit but
you feel in the Gap you feel in the Gap
that's the reason people believe in
evolution although are there indicators
that might could be interpreted as some
form of EV
sure there's stuff that you could go
there but you got to fill in a lot of
gaps there right your brain's got to
make a jump to go to that conclusion
okay because the real evidence suggests
that's not what happened okay so that's
what we do we have these blind spots our
braine our brain not our braine our
brain makes these little gaps filled in
I don't know what a brine is but anyway
number next the prejudicial effect
this is the truth we all have biases
listen to
me we all have
biases prejudicial views yes well I'm
not prejudiced yes you are so am I so is
everyone alive quit thinking it's just
white folks have this problem quit
thinking it's just black folks have this
problem quit thinking it's just Rich
folks have this it's just poor folks we
all have this problem we are all
biased that's why in science they have
what they call blind studies in a blind
study the people who are in the study
don't know the
secret so that they can get an accurate
reading right a double blind study is
when the people conducting the study
don't know and the people in the study
don't know and later you evaluate all
the information that's called a double
blind study that's the most accurate
study that humans can make because it's
double blinded and so now the data
coming out of a double blind study is
Fairly reliable because we tend to if
we're in a study
lean because we have biases so it's like
this okay let's talk about racism just a
minute cuz I know y'all love that
subject no I know that's a joke but
anyway so
racism people are racists that don't
know they're racist how do I know that
I've had kin folks I'm from
Alabama
okay I've known folks are very racist
who didn't believe they were racist okay
right so therefore I read into myself I
may be too
right alternatively listen
this there are a lot of folks that think
other people are racist that
aren't because they read into it the
same thing it's a bias to see racism you
can have a bias to not see racism you
have a bias to see racism you can have
all kinds of biases biases are
everywhere they're everywhere they're
everywhere I mean they're just all over
the place we all struggle with biases
that's just the way it is and that's the
reason that whr Rivers and uh hn wer
back in 1907 invented the first double
blind study because of these effects of
these biases that we tend to have in law
enforcement you may not be aware but
this is the new shift so in law
enforcement if you do something uh if
you do something if You observe someone
doing something right and now they bring
you in and they give you pictures right
of who might be the culprit that they
found you know what I'm talking about so
you look at these pictures now the new
rule is is the detective that found that
man and took his picture cannot be the
one that shows you the
pictures because the tendency is to say
hey look at this one what do you think
that one take a look right and that
happens and so the way to avoid that
from happening is the person showing you
the pictures must not know
either okay then you get an accurate
reading to to some degree it's still
humans right ever seen the show The
Voice that's where I'd have to go you
know get on the voice and uh they would
know I was a bad singer without looking
around so basically they have their back
they have their back to you right so
they don't judge you based on way way
you look why because we have biases we
have biases you'd see somebody and say
he it looks I don't know about that may
seem good but I that's what that's about
so Exodus 23:2 you shall not follow a
crowd to do
evil nor shall you testify in a dispute
so as to turn aside after many to prefer
Justice here's the truth we tend to go
along with the
crowd we tend to have biases that run in
our little circle you have a circle and
in your circle you tend to run in a
biased Circle you're not aware of it but
you you do it and I do it to to we all
do it it's like you remember when Samuel
appointed Saul to be king what was the
big thing they talked about look how
goodlooking he is look how tall he's
goodlook he looks like a king right then
when Samuel goes to a point David he
first enters the house and he sees
David's older brothers oh look at him he
looks the par oh this one surely this is
the anointed of the Lord now it's that
little run out there in the field let's
go get him
okay is that him Lord yeah I have never
thought okay because we have biases and
if you're not careful you'll go along
with the crowd and so you'll think now
well we most of us believe it doesn't
matter what the survey says it only
matters what you're doing quit worrying
about what the survey says doesn't care
if the whole world thinks there's no God
we're not going to go that way
amen Okay so do not allow the devil to
deceive you with their prejudicial
effects number next the polarization
effect we saw this we've seen it
especially in this last campaign I'm not
trying to be political I'm just going to
try to tell you the truth election
rhetoric is a clear thing and what the
polarization effect basically says is
attitudes polarize more and more as the
on the topic the theory the belief the
more Vi it becomes more and more extreme
and what tends to happen is the two
parties grow further and further apart
and they get more and more entrenched
they get more and more vitriolic and
they talk worse and worse about each
other and that is what we just saw we
didn't imagine that we participated in
that increasingly bitter statements and
slanderous remarks are made and the
distance between the two groups grow and
both sides think they are morally
superior to the other
side and that happens and that happens
not just politics it happens in listen
to me
Church it happens in the way we talk
about other churches it always scares me
a little bit when we start running other
folks down like we need to do
that we need to preach the gospel I
don't know if we need to run anybody
else down because you start running them
down they become a bigger bear they were
a bear now they become a bigger bear and
oh and what about this thing and yeah
this thing too and you know they're
wrong on this and then they're wrong on
this and they can do the same thing to
us and
do they do you don't think they think
we're a
bear they'd be with us if they didn't
it's called a risky shift phenomenon and
this is not a mate belief thing and not
only can you see it in politics and in
religion but it happens in a jury you're
on a jury you'll see this happen if
you're not careful because Studies have
found that a jury tends to make riskier
decisions list this is terrible a jury
tends to make riskier decisions than an
individual would if you let a man make
one decision he's more likely to take
the safer course but because a group
gets together and they start polarizing
they tend to give you a rip well we're
going to get this
guy yeah that's a real phenomenon it's
not make
believe kill
Jesus yeah got worse kill him let rabus
go that's a real thing it's not make
believe in Mark 12:12 and they sought to
lay hands on him but feared the
multitude that's why it didn't happen
right then but they've been thinking
about it for three and a half years it's
a real thing so don't allow the devil to
deceive you with this polarization
effect bulk against
it number next it's called the Mandela
effect it's not real but it is real it's
not real you've probably heard of the
Mandela effect there's nothing to it but
it is a misremembering there's such a
thing as misremembering things and we
misremember things and that's what
happens here fion broom was the first
one to discover What's called the
Mandela effect it was a false memory of
Nelson Mandela dying in prison in 1980s
in South Africa or actually on the
island Mandela was actually released
from the from the island from the prison
Island in 1990 and died in 2013 he was
the president of the Republic of South
Africa when we were living there and he
did a magnificent job by the way I'm
very thankful that he became president
because we might have been in danger had
that not been the case when we were
there but we misremember facts and we
think we don't misremember we think we
remember everything but it goes from
here are the topics that have been
discussed Captain Crunch uh Snoopy's
tail Tony the Tiger Pikachu sined the
Sailor or sined and Sh uh uh what was
his name Shazam and then Froot Loops how
it's spelled Mickey Mouse whether you
wore suspender C3PO whether he was solid
gold or had colors on it are Jiffy uh
peanut butter did it actually exist and
the misspelling of The Bernstein B Bears
these are some of the topics of
misremembering listen to me
misremembering happens the problem is is
that it can bleed over into a lot of
things that it shouldn't can I give you
one this is actually from GG you ever
heard of GG the movie back in 1958
you might remember uh Maurice
chaler it's a great song I Won't sing it
I know you want me to but I won't let me
just read it we met it this is him and
his wife talking
singing it starts off him the the
husband we met at 9:00 she answers we
met at 8 I was on time no you were late
oh yes I remember it well we dined with
friends we dined alone a tender saying a
baritone oh yes I remember it well that
dazzling April Moon there was none that
night and it was the month of June that
that's right that's right it warms my
heart to know that you remember still
the way you do a yes I remember it well
how often I thought of that Friday
Monday night when we had our last
rondevo and somehow I foolishly wondered
if you might by some chance be thinking
of it to that carriage ride you walked
me home you lost a glove I lost a comb
oh yes I remember it well that brilliant
Sky we had some rain those Russian songs
from Sunny Spain oh yes I remember it
well you wore a gown of gold I was all
in blue am I getting old oh no not you
how strong you were how young and gay a
prince of love in every way oh yes I
remember it well we do
misremember and that's that's fine for
some things but it's not fine when it
comes to biblical Concepts listen to
this passage this is the passage above
it's particularly verse five for this
they willfully
forget memory can be
selective and it
is memory can be
selective and it
is so this is the lesson
these are some effects that affect us
all the time that Satan can take
advantage of easy this is not all of
them these are just some of them so this
idea that oh well I can just trust
everybody and everything no you cannot
no you cannot you can't even trust
yourself check
yourself check yourself check yourself
with check yourself with the word of God
Amen with the creation around you with
your good friends at church you know
deceptive effects have always led to bad
things many have been deceived about
things that have led to harming people
harming people deceived let let me just
suggest to you is in this last year
you've been deceived many times and you
have yet to recognize
it and I'm trying to get you to you
thought you were right on target no you
were not neither was I on many things on
many things
that's why we come to church that's why
we read our Bible that's why we check
ourselves we need to check
ourselves let me give you some examples
of how that it can be damaging and
dangerous Kurt bloodsworth was convicted
of brutal rape and murder of a
9-year-old
girl exonerated by DNA and fingerprint
science who was convicted they knew it
they had it Frank Lee Smith died on
death row in 2000 he was convicted
victed of rape and murder of a 14 uh uh
and was on death row for 14 years excuse
me and died of cancer 11 months short of
being exonerated by DNA evidence and the
identified the perpetrator as Eddie Lee
Mosley they actually found the guy who
did it Ron Williamson convicted of
murder 11 years behind bars DNA evidence
that was a match at the time he was
convicted was wrong and improved by more
mod
proper DNA testing and it matched
another man who actually did the thing
and he was at the trial testifying
against
him so this happens lives are ruined
you've heard of Birdie uh Midol trusted
people invested $65 billion in
lost well I trust him I know I know this
one's good I know this person I know
this person did it I know he's wrong do
you really are you 100% sure that's the
thing ain't it everyone has been J
misjudged you've been misjudged you
listening to me I know everybody
listening to me has been misjudged we
have all been misjudged something we
said something we did an attitude we've
had tell people tell us we have an
attitude when we didn't have an
attitude yes it happens all the time and
God be may be among all that we can talk
about God is the most misunderstood
being in the universe because none of us
truly know
him o right so don't allow the devil to
deceive you with these effects these
lies of human nature pay attention to
three
things what does creation itself say
what seems rational according to
Creation what is the Codex what does the
bible itself say what do your fellow
Christians say pay attention that's
where you get your only sources of Truth
and if you're listening to all this
other stuff you're deceived more than
you should be pay attention and don't be
deceived if you need to come come right
now as we stand in as we sing
