when I was young yeah I was young once
when I was young about 50 plus years ago
I remember uh one of the first places I
was preaching uh the story got out and
and the reason it kind of stuck with me
is because I was preaching a little
country church out in the middle of
nowhere uh basically backed up to a
nature reserve if you will but uh those
people that I was preaching to very
similar to the people that I heard about
so this is actually a story so I I
believe it
happened if I'm not mistaken it might
have been covered in Christian
Chronicle but what happened is a
preacher came through and was preaching
in a gospel meeting and he was a rather
conservative preacher in fact he would
be probably considered iconic class and
So what had happened is this little
church out in the country had a steeple
and on the steeple it had a cross some
Of You' seen those crosses on the top of
the steeple well they were just a bunch
of country folks and they put a steeple
up and had a cross on the top of the
steeple well the preacher that came
through he was so conservative he says
you're not supposed to have crosses
that's he was an iconic class get rid of
all the crosses he said you ought to
know better than to put up a steeple and
put a cross on the top of your steeple
and that's just inappropriate so these
guys didn't know any better they're just
like trying to do what's right they were
all a bunch of hunters so on Monday
morning all the men at the church
decided that they'd gather together and
get rid of the Cross and being Hunters
they all brought their guns and it got
out there and literally shot the cross
off the top of the steeple the newspaper
locally picked it up and it was called
and the the headlines was the day the
church shot the cross down
so I always thought that was a sad
story because I believe in the cross
amen
you know every church every church and
I'm using that in the broadest sense of
term this morning so if you don't like
it I'm sorry I'm going to go there every
Church knows Paradise was lost by the
curse of sin and death every Church
knows that we know that we were made in
the image of God Genesis chap 1
2627 we all know that we were placed in
the garden Genesis 2: 8 and9 we all know
that we're given s the simp law of don't
eat of that one fruit Genesis 2: 15-1 17
we all know that we were deceived we ate
as a result that opened our eyes to sin
Genesis 3 1-7 we all know that we were
cursed because of sin to suffer and then
to die Genesis 3: 16-19 we all know that
we were separated from God and the life
that we could have had uh because of our
sin Genesis 3 and: vers 24 and we all
know that we were and still are
separated from God by our sin genes not
Genesis now Isaiah 59 is a great text on
that verses 1 and
two that's every church every church and
I'm using the broadest
sense knows what sin is and we know when
we sin very straightforward scripture on
that we know we sin when we break
God's law 1 John 3 and verse4 sins a
transgression of that law we know that
we all must die from sin but we all know
that we do what we is wrong when we do
what we think is wrong Romans chap 14:
22 and 23 so it doesn't actually have to
be wrong but if I think it's wrong and I
do it it's wrong and it's a sin and we
all know that and we know we sin not
just when we break the law or when we do
what we know to be wrong in our heart
but we know that we sin when we fail to
do what we know is right James 4:1 17 do
you know to do good and you don't do it
to him that's sin so if you got
something you know you're supposed to do
and you didn't do it you know that's a
sin against God we all know every
religious person out there that believes
in Jesus we know we sin when we give
into an evil desire James 1: 14- 15
makes it very clear we sin when we give
into our desires and do whatever we want
to do now every church is like that but
more every church and I'm using that the
broadest sense of the term sorry if it
makes you
uncomfortable every Church knows that
death is the primary consequence of our
sin it's very clear we know that we all
have sinned Romans 3:23 all have sinned
come short of the glory of God and not
some of us we know that we all must die
Romans 5: 12-4 that's the number one
thing that's talked about from the time
of Adam down to now how many people do
we know are gone we know that we all
must pay for our sin Romans chapter 6
and
ver3 it is what we pay for it in our sin
Romans 6:23 a wages of sin is death we
know that we all must be judged for our
sins Revelation 20: 12 through 15 there
will be a great white throne and we will
be judged for our
sin so more than that every church out
there everybody that claims to name
Christ as their King knows that God
desires all of us to be saved anyway we
all say something about that every last
one of us we know God is patient and
does not want any to be lost at least
that's what he says in 2 Peter 3 and: n
we all know that God wants everyone to
be saved that's what 1 Timothy 2 and
verse4 says we know that God loves us
all and sent Jesus to save us we just
read that John 3 and verse 16 we know
that's how much God cares about each and
every one of us we know that God planned
a Son of Eve that would come and save us
that's Genesis 3:1 15 one of the first
things we read in the scriptures and we
know that God planned to be the lamb
himself that would save us Genesis 22:8
story of Abraham told us that story so
we know that God himself is the
substitutionary lamb and we know that
God kept this as a mystery to be
revealed afterward 1 Corinthians chap 2:
7 and8 we're all aware that was not
understood in the Old Testament none of
that was perceived of until it actually
came even though God told us all about
it now every church now what I'm trying
to get at is I want you to see that
every Church knows that we are saved by
the cross now that doesn't mean they
understand it but every church out there
will tell you we saved by the cross I'm
not saying something unique is what I'm
trying to get to stay with me every
church out there will say Deuteronomy
24:16 fathers shall not be put to death
for their CH children nor shall the
children be put to death for their
fathers A person shall be put to death
for his own sins that created a problem
how in the world can he be a
substitutionary sacrifice if that's true
that was a problem had to be resolved
was it because nobody can die in your
place that's what the law said so how in
the world could somebody die in my place
that was an important thing to learn but
the Bible was full of the concept that
it was true Isaiah 53: 4-8 says surely
he has mourn our griefs and carried our
sorrows yet we esteemed him stricken
Smitten by God and Afflicted we just
thought he's getting what he deserved
but he was wounded for our
transgressions how could that be he was
bruised for our iniquities how can that
be right the chastisement of our peace
was upon him how can that
be and
by his stripes we are healed but I
thought that wasn't supposed to be
possible we just read that all we like
sheep have gone astray we have turned
everyone to his own way and the Lord had
laid on him the
iniquity of us all how could that
be verse
seven excuse me he was led as a slam a
slam as a lamb to the slaughter and as a
sheep before his shears is silent so he
opened not his mouth verse eight for the
transgression of my people he was
stricken again we just read a moment ago
that it's not possible for another man
to suffer for your sin and then now all
we've read is but that's what happened
but that's what happened but that's what
happened but that's what happened
how Galatians 3 and: 13 answers it but
he doesn't answer it completely it's
says Christ hath redeemed us from the
curse of the law having become a curse
for us for it is written cursed is
everyone who hangs on a tree so he did
this by becoming a curse how did that
work how could that be well it's very
clear it's in the Old Testament
Deuteronomy 21 the law that Christ
actually wrote the father wrote it
through Christ so he is the word writing
these things down this was the promise
of God verse 22 if a man is committed a
sin deserving of death which they accuse
Jesus of committing by committing
blasphemy right claiming to be the Son
of God
right if a
man has committed a sin deserving of
death and he is put to death and you
hang him on a tree now ain't that
interesting if you kill him that way and
you hang him him on a tree verse 23 his
body shall not remain overnight on the
tree but you shall surely bury him that
same day and the reason is for he who is
hanged is a cursed of God now God can't
lie so God says anybody that dies that
way is a cursed of God Jesus died that
way he's a cursed of God according to
that scripture and yet how could he be
in 2 Corinthians 5: 211 says for he made
him who knew no sin to be sin for us
that we might become the righteousness
of God in him so he literally died in
such a way that the Bible itself had
declare him sin the Bible itself had
declare him the curse of God he bore the
curse that's how it happened in 1 Peter
3 and: 18 says for Christ also suffered
once for us the just for the unjust that
he might bring us to God being put to
death in the flesh but made Al Lie by
the spirit see here's the truth if the
just one could be declared
unjust then the unjust could be declared
just that's how he died in your place
something happened that shouldn't have
happened but it did happen and it
happened by the will of God in fact it
St stated so clearly 1 Peter chapter 2:
21- 24 says Christ also suffered for us
leaving us and example so not only did
he die for us in our place but he left
us an example by dying that way leaving
us an example that you should follow his
steps who committed no sin nor was
deceit found in his mouth who when he
was reviled did not revile and return
when he suffered he did not threaten but
committed himself to him who judges
righteously who himself bore our sins in
his own body on the tree in other words
he bore the curse that we even though he
had done nothing wrong that we having
died to sin might live for righteousness
by whose Stripes you were healed that's
how it's accomplished Romans chapter 9:1
15 I will have mercy on whomever I will
have mercy and I will have compassion on
whomever I will have
compassion basically means god want to
save you got to save you Romans 11:32
for God has committed them all to
Disobedience that he might have mercy on
all he can do what he wishes now that
he's made a perfect sacrifice in Christ
now every Church knows that the Cross of
Christ and him
crucified is not part of the Gospel it
is the gospel every Church knows that
the Cross of Christ is the gospel 1
Corinthians 15: 1-4 says moreover
Brethren I declare to you the gospel
which I preach to you which also you
received and in which you stand by which
also you are
saved if you hold fast that word which I
preach to you unless you believed in
vain for I delivered to you first of all
that which I also received that Christ
died for our sins back to that point
according to the scriptures and that he
was buried and that he rose again the
third day according to the scriptures
that is the
gospel excuse
me we must buy in to that but we need to
avoid this idea that somehow in a fallen
world before the world is truly redeemed
that some kind of secular
Unity some kind of even religious unity
is going to be attained because what
we'll end up with is some tyrannical
utopian Unity that will not be nice so
beware what I'm advocating for is what
God's working toward not necessarily
what you're imagining in your head right
now so let's review I going to look at
four reconciliation truths that the
cross does for us and you need to know
that we're supposed to to be United on
this point every last one of us listen
to me I've said every church out there
this doesn't mean you got
it are you listening everybody that sits
in a Pew doesn't get
it okay this is what's supposed to unite
us the cross okay and we need to
understand these things and we need to
stand on them let me walk you through
what I'm talking about number one let's
be United by the cross that reconciles
both both who well let me read the text
ver and I'll explain who the both are
Ephesians chap 2: 14-18 for he himself
is our peace who has made both that's
two right both one so no longer two but
one both and has broken down the middle
Wall of Separation having abolished in
his flesh the enmity that is the
division that is the law of Commandments
contained in ordinances that's what
created the division so as to create in
himself one new man from the two thus
making peace and that he might reconcile
them both to God in one body through the
cross thereby putting to death the
enmity and he came and preached peace to
us who were far off and those who were
near for through him we both have access
to one Spirit to the father here's the
both Once Upon a Time God dealt with the
people who were in Judea Israel by name
later known as Jews to today still known
as the Jewish people if you're Jewish
you're part of the both the other side
of the both is the Nations the Gentiles
the rest of the world that's the both
both are now potentially reconciled to
God through the cross of our Christ if
you are either of the Nations or you are
Jewish this morning that's who God came
to save in Christ and that's who he
reconciles to himself both are
reconciled now that may may not answer
any of your questions right now you may
wonder how that's done we're not into
that right now I'm just simply pointing
out who God intends to reconcile number
two by the cross let us be United by the
cross that reconciles all that's what I
said all through the cross Colossians 1:
19-22 says this for it pleased the
father that in him that is in Christ all
the fullness should dwell that means the
fullness God dwelt in Christ Jesus when
he was upon the Earth that means he had
the spirit without measure verse 20 and
by him to reconcile all things to
himself what things all things to
himself by him that is by Christ whether
things on earth remember I said this a
minute ago things on earth or things in
heaven you mean there were things in
heaven that need to be reconciled yes
and things on earth that need to be
reconciled yes having made peace through
the blood of his cross and you who once
were alienated and enemies in your mind
by Wicked Works yet now he has
reconciled in the body of his flesh
through death to present you holy and
blameless above reproach in his sight so
what are we talking about here uh well
we talk about things on earth that's the
living that's you and me right now he
wants to reconcile them to God uh things
in heaven that's the Divine aspect of it
he wants to reconcile all the Divine
with the Earthly and then things under
the Earth that's Philippians chap 2:1
acts 3:21 the idea is that all things
even under the Earth what are we talking
about we're talking about the dead now
the dead before Christ y the dead before
Christ the dead under the Old Testament
yeah the Dead uh because of the flood
yeah every last dead person that's ever
been all of them be reconciled what's
the idea God intends to reconcile all
all Heaven Earth under the Earth he
wants to reconcile them all how he did
it through the cross he made it possible
through the cross that all so don't
underestimate the power of the Cross
that's what it says it's to do number
three want you to so that we need to
understand and we need to be United by
this idea let us be United by the cross
that reconciles enemies enemies of God
Romans 5: 6- 11 says this for when we
were still without strength this is back
before we knew anything about the Bible
and I lived in that world Once Upon a
Time for when we were still without
Strength In Due Time Christ died for the
ungodly for scarcely for a righteous man
will one die yet Perhaps for a good man
someone would even dare to die but God
demonstrates his own love toward us in
that while we were still sinners Christ
died for us remember that dying for us
he died on the cross that happened a
long time ago verse 9 much more then
having now been justified by his blood
we shall be saved from the Wrath through
him what wrath the Wrath that God has
against sin verse 10 for if when we were
enemies we were
reconciled to God through the death of
his son what he reconciled us even when
we were enemies that's right that's the
only way you can be reconciled you have
to be an enemy and then you're
reconciled now you're a friend enemies
we were reconciled to God through the
death of his son much more having been
reconciled we shall be saved by his life
he ever lives to make intercession for
us verse 11 and not only that but we
also rejoice in God through our Lord
Jesus Christ through whom we have now
received the reconciliation so once all
of us came from pagans face
it all of our
ancestors believed in
rocks bowed down to
rocks and
trees that's our great D granddaddies
and our great
grandmas that's who we were and God
winked at it he had a
plan and Now commands every man wherever
you live to
repent number next
let us be United by the cross that
reconciles the
world let's read it second Corinthians
chap 5: 18- 21 now all things are of god
wow that's a statement is
it think about that one for a day or two
now all things are of God who hath
reconciled us to himself he did it you
didn't do
it well I I I repented I confessed I was
baptized you didn't reconcile yourself
to God you just did what he said for you
to do okay uh who has reconciled us to
himself through Jesus Christ and has
given us the ministry of reconciliation
that's our duty now to help everybody
else be reconciled verse 19 that is that
God was in Christ reconciling the world
to himself not imputing their trespasses
to them and has committed to us the word
of reconciliation not the work of
reconciliation we don't have the the
work of reconciliation we have the word
of
reconciliation verse 20 now then we are
ambassadors for Christ as though God
were pleading through us oh please
please we implore you on Christ's behalf
oh please please be reconciled to God
for he made him who knew no sin to be
sin for us I think we read this a minute
ago right that we might become the
righteousness of God in him Romans 11:15
puts it this way for if there being cast
away is the reconciliation of the world
in other words the Jews turning their
back on God and killing the Christ
caused the reconciliation of the
world hang on to that thought just a
moment that's the
truth for if they're being Cast Away as
the reconciliation of the world what
will their acceptance that means if they
turn back to God what will their
acceptance be but life from the dead the
resurrection
John 3:16 for God so
loved what was it for God so loved the
world so the distinctive ple of the
Church of Christ I'm using this as the
broadest sense of the meaning I'm
talking about the church in the Bible is
Let's Be United why would we be united
we should be United why should we be
United by the cross why the cross
because the cross reconciles both you
and
Gentile the cross reconciles all who
want to come to the Lord the reconcile
the cross can reconcile an enemy if you
you sitting there today and you feel
like you have done terrible things that
you've been working against God you're
the guy you're the one he reconciles
every enemy you can't have done anything
so bad that he's not willing to
reconcile you he reconciles the world
wait a minute you not talk about the
whole world the whole world he wants to
reconcile the whole
world through the cross
Chuck Coulson in
1989 wrote a book called kingdoms and
conflict some of you may remember him
from uh Nixon
days it's an old story I'm looking
around y'all people are so young so uh
the government of Poland polish prime
minister ordered all the crucifixes to
be removed from all classrooms in Poland
he bannned it this back in that 80s late
' 80s band them in the factories and the
hospitals and the public
institutions uh affected the Catholic
more than anybody else and so the
Catholic Bishops attacked the ban every
way they could ultimately though the the
government did relent from that and yet
the laws stayed on the books for a while
by the way they're trying to do it again
right now even as I'm talking but this
happened back in the day and
upon this law being left upon the books
and they left it alone for a while
nobody did anything but one zealous
communist School administrator named
Garin he managed toh say well it's on
the it's one of the laws you need to
obey it all the crosses have to come
down so in one night he had seven large
crucifixes removed from all the lecture
Halls within the
Town Days Later parents entered the
schools and hung more crosses up in the
places of the ones that have been taken
down so it's getting to be a back and
forth the administrator of the school
promptly had those taken down the next
day 2third of the school that's about
600 kids stage to sit
in in a school heavily armed right
police showed
up and forced all the students out of
the school and into the street they
marched down holding all their
crucifixes in the air down to a nearby
Church where about 2500 more students
gathered with them and they spent the
day in prayer soldiers surrounded uh the
church cuz they thought a big Uprising
was being
done but pictures from inside with the
students all inside praying and holding
up their crosses their
crucifix it flashed around the world and
they kind of backed off and one of the
Catholic priests gave a message
literally crying he said there is no
Poland without a
cross now while I don't necessarily I'm
not I'm not an iconic
CL so I'm not going around saying we we
need to take that off right there it's
not what I'm saying but I'm also not
saying we need to put crosses up
everywhere either it's the idea of the
cross that needs to be supported and I I
would support anybody that would want to
have a cross on their church building if
you want to have it I think you have the
freedom to have it it's your
business so I'm not trying to get us all
United behind putting up Wooden Crosses
not there but
Jesus you know I think you know he hung
on a
cross died on a
cross I think we need to support the
cross it's the one thing that in any way
at
all if you want to claim any kind of
unity in Christianity
Today that's
it that's the most important
thing you know Jesus surrounded himself
with a variety of people have you
noticed
that he had a tax
collector had a
fisherman had
prostitutes he had former
demon-possessed
people he had poor people following
around he had some wealthy people
following him around paying for things
he had some energetic people he had some
passive people he had explosive people
like Peter that shout out to
answer he had people like James who was
very logical and legalistic in his
thinking and he had zealous willing to
kill and
somehow
somehow they were all United in
him I think we need to be United by the
cross
I think anybody that raises the cross we
need to
respect that's honest truth does that
mean I have to agree with everything oh
no some of you I don't even agree
with okay it's just
truth but we need to be as United as we
possibly can be
amen let's learn to be United by the
cross prach the cross the cross saves us
who does it save well by the way it's
saves both of us Jew Gentile it saves
Everybody by the way it saves enemies of
the Cross by the way it can save the
world if you're willing to surrender to
it you can repent of your sins confess
the name of Christ be baptized today
baptism doesn't save you that
way I mean the Bible says it saves but
that's not how it saves you the cross
saves you
amen faith in the cross that's that's
what saves you you say Saved By Faith
absolutely Saved By Faith that's how you
saved by faith you believe in that if
you're willing to come though the
invitation is open for you won't you
come while we stand while we
sing I read an interesting uh line I saw
that uh it says the the greatest rank in
in the Lord's church is that of a
servant um Matthew has uh decided it's
uh time to take on Christ and uh be
baptized so I'm going to ask him to come
forward right
now Matthew in Matthew 10 uh Jesus says
if you confess me before men I will
confess you before my father so I'm
going to ask you do you believe that
Jesus Christ is the Son of God walked on
Earth lived a perfect
life was crucified buried and risen in
three days for our sins yes based on
that we will baptize you r
