like I said we're getting ready to turn
uh the page on 2024 2025 will be here
before we know it I'm sure many of you
guys have plans uh for New Year's Eve
many of you will will get together uh
maybe have a a party you'll stay up all
night you'll watch the ball drop and uh
it'll be a good good celebration uh
getting rid of uh 2024 for some of you
uh and me 2024 was a great year
uh for others of you it may have been a
rough year and you may really be looking
forward uh to a fresh start and a new
year um the Austin do something a little
bit different for uh New Year's Eve uh
Bethany goes all out and at about 7:30
p.m. we watch a rerun of the previous
year's ball drop and uh we celebrate
with the girls we have confetti coming
off of the fans and uh by about 8:30ish
uh the girls are in bed and we're
relaxing and probably by 9ish uh we're
asleep ourselves so um that's how we
ring in uh the new year there's no magic
kiss no special uh uh celebration for us
but you know this time of the year is a
great time uh to
self-reflect uh to evaluate the prior
year to look at your accomplishments
what youve what you've done to look at
your short comings where you could have
done uh better and and and it's a great
time to set goals and to set objectives
for uh the new year and then obviously
with that should hopefully come laying
out a plan uh to achieve those goals uh
and OB objectives and most people call
this a New Year's
resolution uh according to Google uh a
resolution is a firm decision to do or
not to do something and so the idea of
New Year's resolutions traces all the
way back uh to actually the ancient
Babylonians over 4,000 years ago it
wasn't on uh January 1st their calendar
was was a different year but they would
actually go and make a New Year's
resolution uh for themselves so this
isn't something that America came up
with uh not something that uh you know
just happened overnight but the
Babylonians ancient Babylonians did that
and so on average 44% of Americans uh
make a New Year's
resolution uh only
31% of those people stick to uh their
resolution and
81% of people uh me uh give up or fail
by
February so these New Year's resolutions
uh don't always last uh major
resolutions I can't tell you how many
times I've had these on my list uh
exercise uh eat
well lose
weight and save money those are the four
major resolutions they are on my list
every year uh and I uh again am in that
81% that failed by February uh but
anything can be a resolution uh you
could have a resolution to travel more
you could have a resolution to to maybe
find a new job or or to to find a new
house uh you could have resolutions to
read more books uh or to
volunteer but regardless of what your
resolution is if you're going to
accomplish that resolution you have to
be
realistic you have to be specific and
you have to lay out a plan uh to to
accomplish whatever it is that you've
decided to do and so I I've not very
often uh participated in New Year's
resolutions because this whole activity
is something that I just do on a regular
basis it's very uh I struggle I won't
say with contentment um but I struggle I
I just am constantly analyzing myself
constantly analyzing my actions
constantly
analyzing uh what I'm doing to ensure uh
that I'm reaching my
goals but one thing that I've noticed
over the last year or two years uh is
that my
resolutions uh have
changed uh the nature of my
resolutions uh have changed my wants and
my
desires uh have started to change uh
it's not just uh saving money and it's
not just uh eating well and exercising
and getting the promotion and uh getting
a bigger salary
uh it's become less of what I want for
my life and what I've noticed is it's
starting to become more of what God
wants uh for uh my life and this has
come from A New Perspective it's come
from a renewing of my mind and it's come
from a change of heart uh and and a
change of of thought and so this morning
we heard Rex uh preach from uh one of
the verses he talked about was James 4
um right they're going out they're
making plans to to work and to make
money we're going to go here we're going
to do this we're going to make this much
money and then we're going to move on
but you know James says you don't even
know what
tomorrow's going to bring and and that
hit me it hit me that I spend so much
time and I spent so long making these
goals and making these objectives and
formulating these plans and these plans
of action to reach these
goals and I've never
considered or at least until recently
considered how do these goals and how do
these objectives line up with God's will
uh for my life and I still struggle with
this I'm not perfect uh you know Bethany
knows I want a th000 Acres uh and a
mansion and lifted trucks I want to be
able to hunt where I live I want to be
you know miles from from the next house
uh but at the same time I feel called to
Ministry and
so you know I I don't think uh if I go
one way I don't think the others
probably not going to happen so I'm not
perfect I don't I I still struggle with
this um but as we approach uh this time
of the year uh as you guys begin to make
your resolutions and to make your plans
I just want this evening to encourage
you to renew your mind uh to make your
plans that align with God's will for
your life um let's
uh let's break this down uh if we
can first I want to look uh we've just
read from Romans 12 and: 2 if you have
your Bibles we'll be there all night um
there will be several supporting
scriptures on the screen that you're
welcome to to flip to but I will read
all those for you I want to look at what
Paul tells the Romans I'm going to read
it again this is from the English
Standard Version uh Bible says do not be
conformed to this world but be
transformed by the renewal of your mind
that by testing you may discern what is
the will of God what is good and
acceptable and perfect and so the first
point that we have tonight that we have
to realize is that there is a need to
renew our
minds uh otherwise we are going to start
to conform to this world uh do we have
any hunters in here anybody spend time
in the
woods couple of you first first thing in
the morning you go outside uh head to
the stand are you able to see
anything no Les riddle taught me uh one
of my first hunting trips with him you
walk out of the
cabin uh 4 in the morning however 4:30
in the morning you close your eyes and
you squint as hard as you
can and the longer you squint and and
and just force your eyes closed once you
open them the easier it is to see if
you've never tried it if you get out of
bed before daylight try it walk outside
close your eyes as hard as you can for
as long as you can and you'll realize
that that darkness is not as dark as it
was uh just a few moments ago and so the
the the truth is living in the world is
the same way the longer that we are in
the world the more we start to act like
the world uh the more we start to live
as the world lives our mind starts to
deceive us that what the world says is
okay even if it's against what the Bible
says our mind starts to deceive us that
that's that's okay because everybody
else is doing it uh Isaiah 55 and: 8 uh
Bible says for my thoughts are not your
thoughts and your ways are not my ways
uh declares the Lord we can't understand
uh God's mind we can't understand his
thoughts we can't understand his ways
Proverbs 28: 26 says whoever trusts in
his own mind is a fool so even though we
can't understand God's thoughts and
God's ways guess what we can't put our
trust in our ways we can't put our trust
in our thoughts we cannot trust our own
mind uh Romans 8 date
5-6 Bible says for those who live
according to the flesh set their minds
on things of the flesh goes on to say in
verse six Paul says to set the mind on
the flesh is death and the reality of it
is is this is our nature right I wake up
in the morning I don't know about you
guys I wake up in the morning first
thing I do I got to go to the bathroom
my body I got to go I I gotta go I got
to find a bathroom right second thing
I'm hungry I'm thirsty I immediately
want to
Satisfy My
Flesh we naturally live to satisfy our
flesh but through the renewing of our
minds uh we are transformed we're
transformed from living for our flesh
and our wants and our desires and we
start to live for God's wants and God's
desires
number two uh there is a process of
renewal we can't just want to think
better we can't just want to do better
uh there is a process for getting there
right I want to lose weight but if I
never get off my couch I'm not going to
lose weight
right uh if we want to renew our minds
we have to change
uh what we are setting our minds on and
so Paul also says in Romans 8:5 uh that
those who live according to the spirit
set their minds on things of the spirit
and so how do we do that how do we go
from setting our our minds on the Flesh
and and what we want and our desires to
to going to setting our minds on uh The
Spirit Well Philippians 4:8 says
whatever is true whatever is Honorable
whatever is just whatever is pure
whatever is lovely whatever is
commendable commendable excuse me if
there is any Excellence anything worthy
of Praise think about uh these things
the renewal and I and I struggle with
this one uh probably more uh than
anything but the rewal of our minds uh
does not come from
rehashing bad things that have happened
to us the renewal of Mind does not come
from
from worrying about the
future it comes from thinking about the
things that are true that are honorable
and that are lovely and I uh my wife can
can attest to this I struggle with this
uh very
badly uh Colossians 3 and: 2 says set
your mind on things that are above not
on things that are on uh this Earth he
goes on in verse three he says for you
have died and and your life is hidden
with Christ in
God uh Galatians 2:20 no longer I who
live but Christ who lives in me and so
as we're making our plans as we're going
into this new year and we're making our
plans and we're we're thinking about
what we want to do in
2025 are we thinking on Heavenly things
are we thinking on the true and the just
in The Honorable things or are we just
thinking about what I want for myself
and what I want for my
family uh 1 Peter 1 uh and verse 13 uh
says therefore preparing your minds for
Action Being Sober minded set your hope
fully on the grace that will be brought
to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ
as obedient children do not be conformed
to the passions of your former uh
ignorance and so we've died to self it
is no longer I who live but Christ who
lives in
me I've got to give away those worldly
desires I've got to give away those
fleshly desires because although they
may not be bad things they also may not
be what's in line with God's will for my
life and so a a part of this process is
setting up our hope fully on the grace
of
God not hoping in material things not
hoping uh in wealth or money not even
hoping in our
health we're intentionally setting our
mind on the things
above and the only way uh that you can
do this right is
to consistently be in God
word the only way that you are going to
know what is above what are these
Heavenly things what is God's will for
my life is to read his
word you're not going to get
that I might get a little Flack for this
you're not going to get that from a a
counselor or a therapist you're not
going to get that from a friend you're
not going to get that from a parent
you're only going to get that from the
word of God opening your eyes and
reading the good
book if not we are just putting our hope
in the things that the world says even
if it's what the world says about God if
we haven't opened it up and read it for
ourselves we don't know what God says
about himself in the
book and then the last thing there is a
result of the renewal of our minds
once we are transformed by the renewing
of our minds putting our minds on these
Heavenly things on the true and good and
just and lovely and commendable things
we'll start to see what God's will is
for us Isaiah 26 and
ver3 uh Isaiah says you keep him in
perfect peace whose mind is stayed on
you because he trusts in you so if you
go back to Romans 121 we won't we won't
read it but it's talking about living
your life your body as a Living
Sacrifice to God there is a submission
to God's will that has to happen and
that can only happen through the
renewing of our minds and once
we've done that once we've submitted to
God's will once we've understood that we
don't really
understand God is going going to guard
our hearts and guard our minds
Philippians 4: 5 and 6 do not be anxious
about anything but in everything by
prayer and supplication with
Thanksgiving let your requests be made
known to God in the peace of God which
surpasses all understanding will guard
your hearts and your minds in Christ
Jesus and
so we've got to get to the point where
we are no longer putting
our faith in
ourselves where we are no longer putting
our faith in what we can do for
ourselves we just spent five weeks in
the youth class going over the gift of
Jesus and I I really did a rush job on
that
class but everything that we studied
there that Jesus is God's offering that
Jesus is our savior that Jesus is our
atonement that Jesus is means to
righteousness that Jesus is our
intercessor that Jesus is our
reconciliation to God the entire four
weeks before today I stressed that is
not of our
doing that that can only be done through
Jesus and so if we can trust and have
faith in God that he is going to save us
one day forgive us of our sins why don't
we trust that he's going to take care of
us on this world too on this Earth
as well and so when we renew our minds
we we die to
ourself we no longer live to serve our
flesh uh Galatians 5 tells us that the
flesh is against uh the spirit right and
so when we are no longer living to serve
our flesh we are now walking by the
spirit and so Galatians 5:22 says but
the fruit of the spirit is love joy
peace patience kindness goodness
faithfulness gentleness self-control
against such things there is no law and
those who belong to Christ have
crucified the flesh with its passions
and desires and so I'm just now starting
to get to this
point uh I was a little upset the other
day Bethany asked me I was wrong I
didn't want to tell her um there's a
there's a little bit of a sadness that
kicks in uh when you realize that
everything you grew up wanting in life
probably won't happen there's a
realization that everything that you've
always wanted may not come
true but then on the flip side of that
once you get through your bad feelings
there's a realization that everything
that's happening in your life and
everything that's going to happen in
your life is because of God and if
you're following his will there's a joy
and there's a peace that's going uh to
come from that
and so I want to finish it off here
we'll read from Ephesians
4 uh Paul says to to put off your old
self which belongs to your former manner
of life and is corrupt through deceitful
desires and to be renewed in the spirit
of your minds and to put on the new self
created after the likeness of God in
true righteousness and Holiness and so
this new self that we are called to put
on
it walks in the spirit this new self
that we are called to put on walks in
accordance to God's will this new self
that we are to put on puts away our
flesh our desires our wants that do not
align with God's will for us and so I
just want to encourage you tonight uh as
you make your resolutions this New Year
I hope that you will renew your mind I
hope that uh you will get in the good
book that you will start to dis discern
God's will for your life I pray that you
will submit to God's will for your life
there's one thing knowing it there's
another thing submitting to
it and then I pray that you will include
his
plans in your plans once you realize
what God wants for you what you realize
what God has in store for you don't
fight it don't run away from it not only
incorporate it into your plans for your
life submit to it make it all that make
it your only goal make it your only
objective I know this hasn't been a a
lesson uh
necessarily about
Sin uh but there is another definition
uh for resolution and Google also uh
says that the action another definition
for resolution is the action of solving
a problem a dispute or a contentious
matter and the reality is is we have a
serious
problem uh we are sinful in our ways we
are sinful in our Deeds uh we were once
alienated and we were once
separated uh from God and so
as you're making your resolutions this
year I want you to understand that God
has already made the greatest resolution
of all and that is Jesus Christ and so
God out of his love and his Mercy he has
through the work of Jesus reconciled us
back to
himself because of his desire for
relationship with us and because of his
love for us so uh I pray that this will
encourage you
um that you will start
to look for God's will uh for your life
if you need anything we have Elders here
they'll be happy to help you please come
as we stand and as we sing
