you know thoughts of demonic spirits may
give you chills at times I know you
probably seen a video or a movie in it
kind of gave you the heebie jeebies or
something but the one who rules in
heaven laughs and scoffs at demons Psalm
2 verse4
says not only that but the demons on the
other hand tremble at him James 2 and
verse 19 says
and his son our savior in human
form before he was on the cross could
command demons and they had to do what
he said Mark chap 1 verse 27 and then
Christ after the cross and after his
resurrection was Lord of all and he
defeated according to scripture and I've
given you a bunch of those he defeated
all the works of the devil
so just think about that just a moment
because as a Christian you really
shouldn't live a life of
fear but there is a desire it seems on
the part of humanity to look into scary
things and to believe in scary things
and believe in conspiracy theories and
they abound around us British
broadcaster you may remember his name
Malcolm
mold uh who died back in 1990 he said
this one of the peculiar sins of the
20th century this was last century for
those of you kids born since 2000 one of
the peculiar sins of the 20th century
which we developed is a very high level
in the Sin of credulity for being open
to
anything it has been said that when
Humans Beings when human beings stop
believing in
God they believe in
nothing but the truth is worse much
worse when human beings stop believing
in God they believe in anything and
everything so I was going to read to you
over
40
40 conspiracy theories I decided maybe
reading them to you I mean it's from the
moon landing wasn't real to the Earth's
flat so you name it I've got 40 here and
that's not all of them people
believe anything and everything once
they stop believing in the most
important
thing how do Believers develop boldness
how do we keep from living lives of fear
how do we keep from being anxious about
everything that's happening around us
especially in times when the news seems
to be just thrilled with trying to scare
you to death about what's coming
everything's going wrong oh we've got to
oh it's it's oh it's a the sky is
falling the sky is falling and many of
us believe
it and many of us almost as if the
politics have control of this world
you're mistaken if you believe that they
do not there is a lord God I promise you
and he's in control of the world
but how do you get boldness how do you
not tremble of such things let me give
you a few things real quickly one is
boldness comes from prayer if you're
fearful you may not have been praying as
much as you should Psalm 138:3 in the
day when I cried out you answered me and
made me bold with strength in my soul
every time you get up from prayer when
real prayer I'm not talking about this
quickie but a real prayer you get up
from that you're bold as a liive acts 4:
29-31 they were a little afraid because
they' just been threatened it says now
Lord look on their threats and Grant to
your servants that with all boldness
they may speak your word by stretching
out your hand to heal and that signs and
wonders may be done through the name of
your son your holy servant Jesus and
when they had prayed the place where
they were assembled together was shaken
and they were all filled with the Holy
Spirit and they spoke the word of God
god with boldness just like what they'
prayed for so God gives boldness in
answer to prayer boldness also comes
from righteousness you want to you want
to know how to deal with all the anxiety
around you do the right thing do the
right thing every time not sometimes
every time never lie never steal never
hurt anybody never do wrong do the right
thing righteousness has a power it will
make you walk through a flame of fire
Proverbs 28 ver1 the wicked flee when no
one pursues but the righteous are bold
as a lion how bold is a lion Proverbs
30:30 says a lion which is mighty among
beast and does not turn away from any
you really think a lion would be afraid
of me if I yelled at
him Proverbs 28 verse1 the wicked flee
when no one
pursues yeah people break it into a
building and somebody makes a little
noise oh we better go it's the police
and that happens all the time by the way
all the time Leviticus 26:15 says if you
despise my statutes break my covenants
verse 17 you shall flee when no one
pursues you the sound of a shaking Leaf
shall cause them to flee they shall flee
as fleeing from a sword and they shall
fall when no one pursues so I'm not
making this up this is the Bible folks
there's people who are doing wrong are
scared to death of their Shadows that's
reason they carry guns everywhere ever
notice bad men really bad men have a gun
in their socks and their pants they got
a knife they got brass St they're scared
of everything they're not brave these
people who have guns everywhere they're
not the brave ones talk to me about a
person that doesn't have a gun that's
willing to walk down the dark alley
because he has the Lord now you know
somebody that's actually bold
but we don't want to hear that because
we think the other is the one that's
Brave see boldness comes from service 1
Timothy 3:13 listen to me deacons for
those who have served well as deacons
obtain for themselves a good
understanding and great boldness in the
faith which is in Christ Jesus you want
to find a bold Deacon he's one doing
something 1 John 4:17 love has been
perfected Among Us in this that we may
have boldness in the day of judgment I
want to be bold on the day of judgment
amen walls
amen boldness comes not only from
service but it comes from hope it comes
from
Hope listen to 2 Corinthians 3:12 since
we have such hope we use great boldness
of speech Paul was able to speak with
great boldness because he had great hope
now hope doesn't mean what we think it
means oh I I I hope I get a candy when
services are no that's not what it means
hope means Great Expectations with
Assurance that's an assured listen to
this passage if you don't believe that
Philippians 1:20 according to my Earnest
expectation and hope there it is that in
nothing I shall be uh ashamed but with
all
boldness as always so now also Christ
will be magnified in my body whether in
my life or by my death that's that's
boldness whether or not doesn't matter
whether I live or die I want to be bold
amen amen walls yeah be bold how's that
that's that hope that does that and then
boldness comes from Jesus my friend
listen to acts 4: 13 when they saw the
boldness of Peter and John he's standing
before the Sanhedrin and they're not
moving in Niche they're being told oh
you need to be quiet you don't need to
be talking like you don't need to be
saying those things listen know what he
says and when they saw the boldness they
weren't backed up by the saned San edin
didn't scare them a little bit when they
saw the boldness of Peter and John and
their threats and perceived that they
were uneducated and untrained men they
marveled they realized that they had
been with
Jesus 1 Corinthians 15:8 says last of
all he was seen by me that's Paul have
you ever seen a man more bold than Paul
PA risking life at every place Hebrews
10: 11-19 and every priest stands
ministering daily and offering
repeatedly the same sacrifices which can
never take away sin that was existing
then that doesn't exist now they're no
longer operating there isn't a temple in
Jerusalem that's operational but it was
when Hebrews was written verse 12 says
but this man talking about Jesus after
he had offered one sacrifice for sin
forever sat down at the right right hand
of God that's where our Lord and savior
sits for that time waiting till his
enemies are made his foot stol every
enemy of Jesus will be at his feet verse
14 for by one offering he hath perfected
forever those who are being Sanctified
that's you and me my friend verse 15 but
the Holy Spirit also witnessed to us for
after he had said before this is the
Covenant that I will make with them
after those days this is from Jeremiah
31 this is the Covenant that I will make
with them after those days says the Lord
I will put my laws in their hearts and
in their minds I will write them then he
adds their sins and their Lawless Deeds
I will remember no more no fear of going
to hell Verse 18 now where there is
remission of these there is no longer an
offering for sin we don't have to keep
having sacrifices verse 19 therefore
Brethren having boldness to enter the
holiest by the blood of Jesus we're
going into heaven with boldness not
because I'm a good
guy by the blood of Jesus it give you
boldness if you believe it if you
believe it you got to believe it though
if the Lord is my shepherd so not only
all of this if the Lord is just my
shepherd and I know he is my shepherd I
obtain great boldness can I walk you
through that if I know he is my
shepherd I don't have fear of so many
things no fear of want Psalm 23:1 the
Lord is my shepherd I shall not want
that means I'll never go without so I
can give my last uh Little Penny right I
can do what was
said at the contribution give it all you
can give it all you you know what you'll
still
eat you'll still
eat no fear of wandering away from the
Lord Psalm 23:2 he makes me to lie down
in Green Pastures he leads me beside the
Still Waters it isn't by my power that I
will stay faithful it's by his leading I
will stay faithful no fear of
waywardness Psalm 23:3 he restores my
soul he leads me in the path of of
righteousness for his name's sake so the
only way I really stay faithful is
because he's been working with me no
fear of wickedness Psalm 23:4 yeay
though I walk through the valley of the
shadow of death I will fear no evil why
for you are with me that's it there's no
fear of wolves now if you're a little
sheep and you have a Shepherd the
biggest enemy you've got is a wolf and
listen to what he says you prepared
table before me in the presence of my
enemies there may be wolves out there
all around but guess what don't have to
worry about it I'm with my shepherd
he'll take care of them no fear of
wretchedness where my life becomes
wretched Psalm 23: 4-6 says your rod and
your staff that means you hit me when I
needed and but you lead me where I need
to go Your Rod and your staff they
comfort me I know I'm on on the right
path verse five you anoint my head with
oil treating me like I'm special and my
cup runs over I'm getting more than I
need surely goodness and mercy shall
follow me all the days of my life so
literally wretchedness is not going to
be yours you stay faithful to the Lord
be no wretched and no fear of withdraw
the Lord is not going to one day say ah
you went too far you got too many sins
piled up it can't have anything to do
with you anymore Psalm 23:6 and I will
dwell in the house of the Lord forever
no he won't withdraw he never forsakes
his people so these scriptures should
help you to be encouraged to be a little
more courageous but I want to go a
little differently now I going to give
you three things just three things real
quick but I think they're important in a
time when people are afraid of their own
shadow it seems I mean people scared to
death people watch these scary movies
and Halloween and all of a sudden
they're jumping at the
Shadows let me give you three things
okay number one the SP spirit of fear
which is the spirit of
can't versus the spirit of boldness
which is the spirit of
can I'm going to give you Romans 8
verse1 15 and 16 I'm going to do it over
and over again this is a really simple
lesson real
simple real simple I'm going to read
most of this Romans
8:15 for you did not receive the spirit
of bondage again to
fear that's not the spirit you get get
from the
Lord but you receive the spirit of
adoption by whom we cry Abba Father I
want to talk about adoption when I get
through this how important that feeling
is Aba father it's a different way of
looking at God first 2 Timothy 1: 6 and
7 says therefore I remind you to stir up
the gift of God which is in you through
the laying on of my hands this is the
passage read to you earlier for God has
not given us a spirit of fear but a
power
power now the spirit of fear says you
can't do
things but the spirit of power says you
can the very next verse Romans 8 verse1
15 then verse 16 says this the spirit
himself Bears witness with our spirit
that we are children of God when you
really get a handle on that that we
we are children of God
that means everything that's his is
ours the change your fear Philippians 4
and verse 13 I can do all things now
that's not what it
says I can do all things through Christ
who strengthens me it's his power he
strengthens spirit of fear always says I
can't Spirit of the Lord says I can't
Lord wants me to do it I can do it I'll
do it give me that
lion give me that
heel give me that
discouragement number
two spirit of fear which is a spirit of
callousness versus the spirit of
boldness which is a spirit of
caring again back to Romans 8 verse1 15
I'm telling you I'm going to read this
over and over again Romans 8:15 for you
did not receive the spirit of bondage
again to fear you're not a slave in
Egypt where you might die at any moment
did not receive the spirit of bondage
again to fear but you received the
spirit of adoption you've been adopted
Spirit of adoption by whom we cry ABA
father not just father but ABA that
means daddy
Papa second Timothy 1: 6 and 7 again let
me read it again therefore I remind you
to stir up the gift of God which is in
you through the laying on of my hands
for God has not given us a spirit of
fear but of power and
love so power equals ability love equals
good will he has given us the spirit of
love so the spirit of fear says be
callous you got to be oh yall watched
all these movies about the end of the
world stuff where they fighting each
other after it's over with and how
everybody gets all mean cuz everybody
believes that's the way it'll go right
cuz when you're scared you start getting
mean to everybody right y'all been in
traffic spirit of fear says you can be
callous the spirit of love
says you can be
caring and so the very next verse again
let me remind you again Romans 8:16
after 8:15 the spirit himself Bears
witness with our spirit that we are
children of God when you get a handle on
that you're a child of God and you can
be loving even in a scary
situation in 1 Timothy 3:5 it says if a
man does not know how to rule his own
house how will he take care of the
Church of God here's the truth if you're
really doing it God's way you take care
of others
take care of them
why you're not
afraid love is the deal there's the
power there's power there's
love third little lesson spirit of fear
which is a spirit of
cowardice that's what I
say listen to me I I really need to
encourage a lot of people who have
anxiety quit justifying your anxiety
it's not good that we give into
that because it is a spirit of
cowardness and it's not what we're to be
about spirit of fear which is Spirit of
cowardness versus the spirit of boldness
which is the spirit of
control I may even have fear that I'm
going to be
controlled it's called self-control I'm
going to be controlled amen I'm going to
be controlled
Romans 8:15 you did not receive the
spirit of bondage again to fear but you
receive the spirit of adoption by whom
we cry ABA so I may be on the outside
scary things happening but on the inside
I'm saying I'm a
father going to be okay amen because he
says go let me go back again second
Timothy 1 verses 6 and 7 therefore I
remind you to stir up the gift of God
which is in you by the way this is just
talking to Timothy he talking to you the
gift of God which is in you through the
laying on of my hands because he says
for God has not given us the spirit of
fear but of power and of love and here's
the big one now and of a sound
mind the sound mind that's sound
judgment that's
self-control that's discipline you have
a discipline mind you don't just believe
anything and everything you don't just
go Haywire all over the place the spirit
of fear says be a coward
run it's the spirit of a sound mind says
be
controlled let's just say fire breaks
out in the building first thing you want
to do is run but it might be better to
walk to the exit right ain't that what
they teach you don't run to an exit in a
fire
walk walk be controlled Romans 8:16
again says the very next verse it says
the spirit himself Bears witness with
our spirit and by the way all this means
this is sub for those of you who don't
believe the Holy Spirit lives within us
now because you some some kind of you
really think you're really conservative
biblically you need to read that passage
a little clearer because it means
present active right now it means since
you were saved which is in the earlier
part of that text in this part of the
text it is specifically saying that the
spirit himself Bears present active
Bears witness with our spirit that we
are not were are the children of God
that's right now why does he do that a
multiple multiple ways he's constantly
working in your life he's doing things
for you he's blessing you in so many
different ways if you just pay attention
you'll see the Holy Spirit working
around in your life but you got to
believe it first to see
it here's the deal though 2 Corinthians
10:5 says bringing every thought into
captivity to The Obedience of Christ I
don't get to just think about anything I
want
I have to control it I don't get to go
just anywhere I might think about going
right I don't get to put in my body just
anything I think about putting in my
body I don't get to say just anything I
think about
saying I don't get to talk just any
which way I want I I have to control
this I have to control these be careful
little eyes what you see there's a
father up above looking down at
be careful little hands what you do
right be careful little feet where you
go we sang
that that's still true my friend you are
to be controlled not by
others you give in to the spirit and let
the spirit have control and you go that
way but listen now Spirit itself Bears
witness we're children of God but
bringing every thought into captivity to
The Obedience of Christ Christ every
thought can't just think anything quit
thinking about every kind of crazy
conspiracy theory think about what you
need to be thinking about 1 Timothy 4:12
be an example to the Believers this is
to Timothy a young man you know it's
harder for young people we sang the song
of uh our our young our sins When We
Were Young don't remind me we sang that
earlier in the service you remember so
yeah we know there's a real struggle
when you're young because you haven't
got everything grounded yet and of
course you know you got a lot of vim and
vigor you want to do things be an
example to the Believers in word and
conduct in love in spirit in faith and
Purity why is all that possible how do
you do it how do you have that
difference of change you got to know
your children of
God y'all remember my
granddaughter Lily does anybody remember
Lily some of y'all remember her
she's 18
now yeah she's
18 she's 18 and uh this week at
18 she learned to
drive and got her driver's
license and
they Emily's crazy they got her a
car won't be going to Memphis for a
while no uh
but I want to tell you something Paul
Peak Emily's
husband adopted
Lily that's made the biggest difference
in that little girl's
Li You're
Nobody Until Somebody Loves
You You're
nobody till somebody cares
so what I'm suggesting to you is if you
realize that you've been
adopted and who you Dad
is and she uses that word now Paul
Dad how this old boy
did spirit of fear versus the spirit of
boldness it's the spirit of power that
says you
can it's the spirit of love that says
says I can be
caring this the spirit of a sound mind
that
says I can be
controlled boldness yes boldness comes
from praying from righteousness from
service from Hope from being with
Jesus and if Jesus and we see the Lord
as our Shepherd then we we don't have
the fear that the people of the world
have we don't have fear of want we don't
have fear of wandering or waywardness or
wickedness or Wolves or wretchedness or
withdrawal because the holy spirit gives
us the spirit of boldness to
say you can do
it you can be cared when everybody else
is
not and you can be controlled when
everybody else is acting
crazy and they're all
scared and so it's at Halloween and
everybody starts putting on these crazy
costumes I saw Elders last night without
heads so I'm just crazy crazy stuff but
let's Let Jesus haunt our Halloween and
scare the devil out of the
Demons by dressing up with
fearlessness let's put on the Lord Jesus
Christ Romans 1314 let's put on the new
man Colossians 3:10 let's put on the
whole armor of God where we'll be able
to stand against the Ws of the
devil let's live our best
life now without being afraid and I I
know there are anxieties out
there I've had PTSD and I've had anxiety
attacks they're
horrible don't let it take
over a man had hid 32 years
fearing punishment of pro- Nazi wartime
activity his name was Janice
Rush he'd hide when he would actually
cry when he'd hear people outside
because he stayed hidden mainly at his
sister's house out on a farm but if he
heard people come by and they were
laughing he would
cry I wish I could be out there but they
want to kill me the war was long over he
started hiding in June of
1945 and he stayed hidden for
32
years the war is long
over he said this after he came out
because they they they actually found
him because his sister had gotten some
bread and she just gotten a bunch of
bread and somebody started asking
questions and so they they found him he
said if I had not been discovered I
would have remained in
hiding so I'm happy that this has
happened well I I imagine he would
be he looked down in the valley looked
down he lived up on a mountain he looked
down in the valley and see the town he
see people walking around he so wanted
to be there but he was
scared 32 years
lost I know some of you got
fears you don't need
to biblically you don't need to because
Jesus Christ died for our sins according
to the scriptures he was buried and rose
again according to the scriptures Grace
has been provided for you if you believe
any of this stuff that I have been
saying if you believe the scriptures you
really believe that he's your Shepherd
you have no reason of living a life of
fear amen so if you're here today and
you'd like to make a shift over where
you lived a life not scared of your
Shadow not afraid of what oh I know the
political people oh the world's coming
to an end oh whoever if the other side
gets elected the world's over with I
understand it's not
true it's not true God's in control if
you want him to be Lord of your life
come why we stand Why We Sing
