George sweding wrote a book called The
no guilt guide for
witnessing he tells about a man named
John Courier who in 1949 he was
convicted of murder and he was sentenced
to in prison for life for having
committed that murder he was in a prison
for most of that time but later he was
transferred uh to what was called parole
work on on a farm near Nashville
Tennessee in
1968 however Courier John Courier the
man who committed murder uh he W his
sentence was commuted terminated and a
letter bearing this good news was sent
to him at the farm in
Tennessee John however never saw the
letter nor was he ever told anything
about the letter
life on the farm was hard as you can
imagine it was hard work and there was
no promise of any future for him because
he was sentenced to life so he thought
that's where he would be till the day he
died he kept doing what he was told so
even when the owner of the farm uh the
farmer himself died John Courier kept
working 10 years passed and and a state
parole officer learned of Courier's fate
in his plight and so he made the trip
and found him told him about the letter
and how his sentence had been commuted
in
1978 he was finally freed but his
sentence was commuted in
1968 he had been a free man all that
time and he didn't know
it see almost today I'm I'm not really
revealing
anything probably that's new at
all I'm going to use almost no scripture
today it's really unusual for me right
almost
none and there's a reason that I'm doing
that I want you to see
something that you should have seen if
you haven't seen it hopefully you'll see
it when I get
through this lesson is not about
condemning you I don't think Jesus was
condemning the people he was speaking to
nor is it about saying that they were
all lost I don't believe that was the
message that he's trying to convey
either not I'm just saying that this
lesson was about changing making
adjustments there are three words in
this whole Sermon on the Mount that
might get omitted and I want to call
your attention to them they are the
they the you and the who
passages and so they that's the target
of Christ discourse in the sermon and I
hope to help you see that message and
the central theme where it begins just
so you get it is
practice that's the central theme of
this whole sermon you pick that up
Matthew 5 and verse 19 where he uses the
word practice and then of course in
Matthew 7:23 24 26
in the ending of the sermon the emphasis
on
practice it's on a challenge your
thinking um but not really unveil
anything you haven't read you've seen it
all everything I want to talk about you
said it you've read it out loud we just
heard much of it in fact the entire
lesson really is in verses 1-
20 because it's repeated in the entire
sermon so I show you what I'm talking
about about there so let's if we
ourselves maybe were we've been
misjudged maybe we've been
misunderstood and maybe
misused the teachings of Jesus let's
hope we haven't here's what we're
looking at simple lesson Stay With
Me
Jesus he truly teaches they and that is
the word used they
are misjudged so copy
them in Matthew 5 1-10 are the
Beatitudes the
Beatitudes are nine in that text some
say eight but I believe it's correct to
say nine times he says blessed but
there's a 10th one and the 10th one's
the one I want to draw your attention to
the 10th one is not in the text the tth
10th one is the text
the 10th beatitude is the problem that
they had these behaviors were not
considered
normal these behaviors that he is
emphasizing is not if you don't do them
you don't go to heaven what he's trying
to suggest to you is is that these
behaviors are great and there Society
did not believe that nor does our
society
we still mock these behaviors in these
attitudes and that's misjudging them and
it's almost as if we think people who
are say poor in spirit and are very Meek
and quiet wall flowers that they're the
cursed ones and that's not true that a
meat person that would let you run over
them and have your way with them and you
could manipulate them that they they are
cursed that's not true that a peacemaker
that would spend their life trying to
take two people who don't get along and
solve it they're just
compromisers that's not true and that
people that would be persecuted and be
run down obviously good things happen to
good people such things like that
doesn't happen to good people no that's
not true so they were wrong and our
society is wrong about
that not only they are misjudged to be
cursed for their practices but they are
blessed and we should copy their
practices and why I emphasize that is
because he's not talking to them he's
talking about they read your text again
open your Bible real quick are you there
I'll turn there with you notice the term
blessed are the poor in spirit for
theirs it's not you it's they he's not
talking to them you don't have these
qualities that's what he's saying you
don't see it this way blessed are those
who mourn for they not you they blessed
are the meek for they you pick it up now
he's not talking to them he's talking
about other people that they
aren't that's the message to you and
me uh-oh okay let's move on second
lesson he truly teaches you because he
changes and he changes in the verses 17
through 20 but then he changes again but
basically he teaches that you are
misguided to concede now I will point
out that you is in the final uh of the
Beatitudes if you pick up in verse 10 he
shifts to you everyone before that was
they and then then he says but you so
obviously some sitting there were going
to truly be mistreated and persecuted
and he's speaking to them and we know at
least the TW apostles were talking to
there they're there and you say the 12
well Mias was obviously there too so
they were there right so they were going
to be
mistreated
okay and that wasn't something that
their society because they believed that
good things happen to good people and
bad things happen to bad people so if
you're persecuted you're not a good
person that's why it's happening to you
so he truly teaches you are
misguided so concede that
fact and by the way that should be
something we should always be willing to
do we should always be willing to think
that we've been misguided what have we
been misguided about much of what what
Jesus taught has been
misguided
much probably even this Sermon on the
Mount often people have been misguided
about it because what he's really trying
to do is get you to not be
superficial he's not really teaching
anything new there is nothing new in
anything he says in this Sermon on the
Mount every bit of this is in the Old
Testament every every last word of it's
in the Old Testament it is taught in
various ways in various Styles it's
taught in the law it's taught in the
prophets it's taught in the writings
it's taught everywhere these things are
not new he said nothing
new but he drew your their attention to
not being superficial about the law
nothing new truths so in verses 11-43
you're misguided in your doctrinal
practices so he goes through a list he
talks about marriage and divorce he
talks about various things it doesn't
matter what he's talking about the point
is is that nothing is he saying is new a
lot of people want it to be new but it's
not new the everything he teaches is in
the Old Testament you say well what
about that lusting after someone else
have you read the tenth commandment Thou
shalt not covet the neighbor's wife
right nothing is new
here so you're misguided in your
doctrinal practices if you think it's
there and then verse uh Matthew chapter
6: 1-34 and then on into chapter 7 1-20
you're misguided in your spiritual
practices if you think you have a right
to judge everybody else if you think
that's a holy practice if you come to
church looking for something to pick on
somebody else
about your spiritual practices are all
out of
line and you don't realize it so what
I'm trying to get to is all he's saying
is quit being so
superficial quit trying to take the
Bible and find a way for you to skirt
around what I'm really teaching quit
doing that just see it for what it is
see it internally see it externally and
do both the internal and the
external so you are the ones that have
been taught wrong is what he's saying to
those people and their teachers
were misleading you they're religious
teachers so the first group were thought
to be the deplorables because they're so
terrible the they you however are the
ones that have been
deceived third group that he's speaking
to he truly teaches who are
misbehaving so they need to
convert in chapter 7: 21-23 three we're
getting close to the end of this whole
thing he says you are misbehaving by
practicing
lawlessness and that kind of behavior
can get you in serious trouble it can
destroy your life it can destroy your
relationship with God your misbehavior
by practicing lawlessness but it also
emphasizes in verses 24- 27 just not
doing what I say you hear it but you
don't do it you're just being
spiritually lazy so there's two types of
people that disobey they're basically
this and whoever they are so he's not
pending it on them notice he changes to
whoever so it fits anybody the the they
in the beginning the you or anybody else
whoever it is that is misbehaving and
not doing the will of God both
internally and
externally okay they're
Lawless you say to me Lord Lord but you
don't do the things I say you're a
lawless person
you just talk a good game but you don't
live it right that's all he's saying and
then he changes to you hear the sayings
that I give you and if you do them then
you'll be like the man who built his
house upon a rock the rains that's in
floods come the winds blow and beat upon
that house but it stood because it was
founded upon what I had taught and you
are solid you will make it but then the
guy who doesn't do that it's like a guy
built his house up the sand rains to
send floods came winds blew and the
house went
flat so it's basically that simple of a
teaching it's really so the who were the
ones not obeying the law and not obeying
his teachings that he was giving they're
disobedient so there's the disobedient
there's the deceived and those who were
thought
deplorable that's it that's the lesson
that's all there is uh that's the truth
truth and so the next time you read it
please read it in a way that you get it
because I'm afraid a lot of people
aren't reading it that way they're
reading it as oh yeah those over
there and the those over there were
doing really
good it's the you that needed to
understand that you're misunderstanding
some stuff and you've been misguided
you're deceived often into justifying
your shallow observance of the will of
God and then the last group of course
they were the disobedient Christ is
teaching us a way of life and practice
Christ is teaching us a way of training
and not a way of just
trying he's challenging our thinking and
making us see people properly and see
the law properly and our practices from
a totally different angle the view from
above which is if you just do it
externally and you don't do it
internally you're not really doing it
are you so Christ is teaching us a
practice that doesn't really require a
major shift I know a lot of people think
well you obey the gospel boy you changed
overnight that's not been my experience
was it my personal experience and it
hadn't been my experience watching
Brethren what I I've seen is little micr
changes micr changes micro then you look
back over a few years you go wow changed
a good bit but you don't see it at the
time because you can't you can't go from
over here to over here nobody can do
that all you can do is make a a change a
little shift and there are little shifts
and little shifts matter and it may seem
like it doesn't but it really makes a
difference to make an adjustment the
question is are you making any of the
adjustments anymore or have you arrived
you haven't made an adjustment in
years you haven't seen the challenge at
all have you
arrived the handwriting was on the wall
for a company named
catall Catal was founded in 1912 in
Cincinnati and back in those days people
mainly warmed their house up North with
coal well if you warm your house with
coal you know what happens there's sit
in the room people breathe it it's
everywhere it's in the room okay you
can't get away from it Coal's dirty it
really is and so they had a product it
was soft and pliable it was a compound
that it was used for wiping the soot
from the wallpaper in people's
houses the problem was is that people
were shifting from coold over the
process of years to more clean fuels
like gas and electricity and as that
shift made in water heaters right so as
that shift happened there was less need
for this product that they used to
literally go up on the wall which a
rubbery kind of thing and rub it off of
the the wallpaper and so their company
was going down and then a
sister-in-law knowing about all of this
she she was a principal of the company
but she knew about it and she said I
think there's something we could do and
shift the company a little bit and and
take advantage of that so it was in the
50s and uh Joseph McVicker was trying to
turn the company around he owned the
company but his sister-in-law came to
him and said you know some of our
product you may not realize this is used
in preschool and kindergarten and in
school and they take it and they let the
kids just play with it and make mold it
into something and the kids love it so
maybe we need to shift the emphasis of
our company and turned it into a a
toy and they did they called it Play-Doh
and they added color to it and it became
a phenomenon right now uh I read that uh
70 million pounds of that salty stuff
have been produced in fact one of the
people in the company says urban legend
has it that if you took all the Playdoh
compound created since 1956 and put it
through the plof fund Factory which
really set their company off uh their
place Edge you could make a snake that
would wrap around the world 300 times I
don't know if that's true that sounds a
little extravagant Hasbro owns it now
but that's not why I'm telling you the
story telling you the story to tell you
this story that's just the history
behind it the story behind it is I
watched a movie the other day it's an
old movie it's from 2010 it was called
how do you know is a romantic comedy and
in it was produced by James Brooks and
the stars were re Rees Witherspoon Owen
Wilson Paul Rudd and Jack Nicholson one
of the Jack Nicholson's last movies I
don't know if he's made one since then
there's this conversation toward the
very end of the movie and I I'll take
you to now George is rud and Rees with
Witherspoon in this is Lisa
okay George says I got a
gift it's a present wrapped in a brown
paper
bag and Lisa says thanks and she's
thinking about marrying somebody
else she opens the gift Lisa says thanks
for not rushing me she took time she
didn't miss anything
George said yeah and then he says it's
Plato because she pulls it out it's a
thing of
PlayDoh and George says because she
looks at it
okay well this is only half the gift he
says she said yeah and George says it
doesn't work without the
story Lisa kind of sarcastically says
okay and George explains the story which
is what I just told you the stuff was
invented by a man in central Ohio as
white goo they used it to remove stuff
off of wallpaper from oldfashioned
heating so this gas and electric heating
came and there was no longer a need for
the cleaning goo so the guy was going
under with his sister who sister-in-law
who was a nursery school teacher and
Lisa says is this a true story and
George said the man's name was Joe
McVicker his sister in-law was K zul and
Lisa said okay I believe you George says
so K
zul discovers
that uh her little kids like squeezing
the goo a lot more than the hard
modeling clay so she suggested to her
brother-in-law Joe the color of the
stuff and called it
Play-Doh Lisa acts impressed and she
said hey that's
nice and then George says what I wanted
to get you right here
for so this is the purpose of telling
that whole
story George says I have kept this for a
long time as proof that we're all just
one small adjustment away from making
our lives
work just one small
adjustment so I know you think sermons
are designed to revolutionize your life
I don't believe that I believe we make
small
adjustments and that's what the sermon
on the mount's calling you to you can't
fix everything today you can't become
Superman
today but you can pay attention to
something that you haven't got right
maybe you haven't picked up on the
Beatitudes and there's one there that
you've never worked on or maybe there's
a doctrinal thing that you've just not
worked out or a pragmatic thing you
haven't worked out you
know I've been a Christian a little
while
now and I still got lots of
adjustments let's work on our
adjustments if you need to come forward
we'll help you any way we can while we
stand and while we sing
