good
evening so good to be here so good an
honor for me to be able to be before you
this evening and I was uh asked to share
a little bit I was pretty excited this
morning because I saw uh some slides
already going through with uh things
that are coming up and uh two of those
are Honduras and Panama so um as as Rex
mention I am the all the elders have
their area of uh we call it the AO and I
know DWI know what I'm talking about
area of responsibility right so they
said new Elder let's give him evangelism
and missions right off the bed right so
that was me no I volunteer for that I
love as my passion and Brother Lou knew
it uh evangelism I just love it I love
evangelism I love I love talking to
people and um we had that that um
seminar coming up in March so I hope you
guys saw the the slide there's some
flyers out on the foer and they have the
schedule what's going to be going on so
you can see I believe it's in a blue
paper so you can grab one of those
before you leave tonight uh on top of
that we have some missions coming up
that you all can be a part of and that
is um the one going to Honduras which we
do every year for I don't know how long
over 20 years I believe and I already
went there it is an absolute blessing uh
to do that if you have never done it I
highly suggest or recommend that you do
that it'll change your view and I see uh
Beth back there going like this cuz she
knows this it's it's a a lifechanging
event right so um talk to Terry Reeves
he's he's uh leading those two there's
two missions going to Honduras this this
year which is is rare right two whole
things uh he can give you more
information but there's also a Panama
our brother um Trent wheeler he's out
there in Panama he left us about a year
ago and he's over there working and he's
looking for for for us to come or
something in the Brewing that I might be
and my wife might be teaching a little
bit in Spanish over there so maybe you
guys want to come and see us teach over
there in Spanish uh so but we're looking
forward to that and uh I'm so glad we
also have very involved now with the
guadala mission we met that preacher
that I told you guys about and I still
owe you the presentations and I will I
will bring I will bring all the pictures
there's a lot of updates that had
happened they had uh twins they had two
little babies so awesome uh we are
supporting him starting this year so I
definitely owe you a presentation for
that so but he is a natural from there
and we're helping him he's a preacher of
the Gospel he has a brother who is
preacher of the Gospel as well so we are
very excited about helping him his
family and hopefully that that mission
there can grow and we can go you know
and help him uh further that but tonight
is have a different subject uh and uh as
as you guys know my my wife and I both
are studying biblical counseling so she
I graduated in 22 she's about to
graduate in May so you can uh you can uh
soon to be congratulate uh we're going
to go to Puerto Rico for that graduation
so we are involved in this biblical
counceling um Ministry that we want to
have uh to to follow the steps of twight
who's done it here for I don't know how
many years uh but we want to do that but
was one thing that they actually make me
when you go I finish my degree but that
didn't give me uh certification or
anything like that so I went after the
lure didn't like it because they're
pushing certain things that are not
Christian they're more secular so I kind
of got away from that and started the
biblical counseling certification I want
to have some kind of credential right so
so you guys know that we are well
trained to help but again it's not we
don't want to keep this to ourself and
um I went through uh one of the
associations and
surprisingly after I went through the
first year I submitted phase one to be
review and passed for the second phase
and they denied my certification because
I was a member of the Church of Christ
right I know I was like what so I told a
few people here and they were surprised
as well but I said okay whatever I'm I
went to the next one there's another
Association it's called Uh the American
associate no I said um Association of
biblical counselors ABC so I emailed
them first this time I learned I say hey
you guys certify members of the Church
of Christ and they say oh yes we do they
have their own beliefs you know most of
them we agree with probably one or two
that we're maybe in the great area but
they said we don't push any theology we
just want you to to make sure that you
teach the Bible make sure that you do
personal Ministry that is uh 100% based
on the biblical uh in the scriptures
right only scriptures and we we agree to
that but there's one more thing that
this Association made me promise that I
thought it was pretty awesome and I
absolutely agree with it but here's what
it says and I had to agree to them and
send submit and it says that I had to
agree with this uh it says the statement
says I recognize that holding a
certification from the association of
biblical counselors does not mean that I
have cornered the market in my in my
church as it regards biblical counseling
uh Ministry but Bears responsibility of
equipping and training others so that
the church may be strengthened in his
commission to make disciples in other
words I agree I will not hoard what I
have learned but will seek to work
diligently to share my knowledge and
skill by training others in how to
fulfill their call to disciple others
and I I think that you guys will
probably agree with that as well right
so I promise that that's what I'm doing
tonight what you see on the screen right
now how people change is actually a book
and I'm going to show you the book in
the last slide that I'm going to highly
recommend for everyone to get whenever
Brother Lou asked me to do another class
this is the class I I'll be doing right
so he knows already uh so that's coming
whenever he wants so if you guys are
going to be part participants of that
class this is going to be understanding
the gospel G Gap and it's just the
introductory chapter so I'm going to
share some things with you so you can
get a a a just a peak of how good this
book is and believe me I do not
recommend I guess somebody here I I
think I said something one time
something that I read and I said it
somebody said hey can you share that on
the Church website and I'm like H it
wasn't from the Church of Christ so I'm
very careful right recommending
resources but this is not from the
Church of Christ but even though it's
not I'm still recommended it because if
you read the book and and there's two
but only one that I'm going to mention
today the other one I already did the
class um last winter I think it was or
fall and uh it was an absolutely amazing
book as well so I'm going to show you
same authors I'm going to show you both
at the end but these books are really
like the foundation of what we're
supposed to know not only how we change
but how we can help other people change
and believe me there's not only a few
people that need to change every one of
us need to change on a daily basis right
and you'll see that as we go through
this and hopefully we don't get make it
too long um so but anyways this book
you'll see it and uh let me get in here
real quick to show you and share with
you the story of Phillip and Ellie um
it's super super interesting and one of
the things that I like about this is
that they use they use Dr trip and Dr
Lane
they use real cases right the names are
not real but they use real cases to
teach to show you what they have
experienced what they have seen what
they have you know the people they have
helped Through The Years so this is
really really good um let me give you
this story real quick I have to read it
because it's kind of on the long side
actually most of the stuff you're going
to see here is is from the book um I
know they told you Jesus was coming to
preach sorry to disappoint uh but this
is really good I'm I'm telling you this
is really good so uh here's here's the
story um as at first he says the authors
I was impressed Phil was not only
familiar with the scriptures and uh
Systematic Theology he also owned an
extensive library of biblical
commentaries by The Who's Who of
theological writers there there there
were a few places I could go in
scripture and this is uh Dr trip when he
was uh helping him uh that I could go in
scriptures and few theological
references that I could make that were
new to Phil yet there was something
dramatically wrong if you were to turn
to um to turn from Phil's library and
watch the video of his life you will see
a de fre or entire different man Phil
always seemed to be pointing out
something wrong around him yet he was
successful at very little himself he had
the theological the stury of a gymnast
but he lived like a relational
paraplegic his marriage to Ellie had
been tus from day one he seemed
completely unable to diagnose uh or
correct the unending stream of problems
that has sucked the oxygen out of their
relationship his relationships with his
grown children were distance at best and
he always seemed to be embro
in some drama with his extended family
he was never satisfied in his career and
he had been involved in four churches in
three decades the time he spent dealing
with his own problems uh left him little
time for Ministry to others the problem
was that few seemed to know the video
fill he and Ellie never fought publicly
never separated and never considered
divorce they were faithful in church
attendance and in giving in Sunday
School classes and bible studies Phil
came across as very knowledgeable and
very committed yet at
home he was easily irritated and often
explosive most of his free time was
spent on the computer he and Ellie
rarely talk beyond the level of plans
for the day and even then his responses
toward her were harsh and imp patient
terms like love Grace and joy did not um
characterize Phil's
life I'm going backward
sorry there we go all right sorry
so terms like love Grace Joy did not
characterize ph's life Ellie uh carry
around a frustration with the church
because she felt like no one really got
filled he wasn't physically abusive he
wasn't addicted to substances or
pornography and he wasn't about to
forsake his family so he flew under the
radar of pastoral care knowing how many
people look up to feel Ellie struggle
every time he was asked to lead a Bible
study or teach a theology class she did
everything she knew to resist becoming
bitter and cynical but she was beginning
to lose the battle some Days Ellie would
not would find herself at the kitchen
table lost in their dreams of a life
without Phil finally Ellie told Phil she
could not go on like this any longer she
knew she needed help and she asked him
to come along for counseling at first
Phil angrily refused but he eventually
agreed to uh give it a try during the
first time together or their first time
together uh Paul let them spend most of
the time talking there was something
strange about their story he says but he
couldn't put fo put the finger on it
right so it wasn't until he was driving
home that it hit him they had given him
an extensive history yet there was
little or no reference to God here he
here was a theological man and his
believing wife yet there life story was
utterly Godless Phil and Ellie had a
huge gap and this is what we are going
to I'm going to show you today they had
a huge go Gap in the understanding of
the Gospel it was as if they were
attempting to live with a gapping hole
in the middle of their house right and
they walk around it every day things
would fall into it and the the hole
would get bigger but they didn't seem
aware that it was there they didn't
realize that others didn't have that
home in the house right and those who
did it needed to be renovated or or
demolished right so Phil Phil even had
he says he even had a whole repair
manual the Bible and um and he read it
thoroughly but he that hadn't led him to
to fix that hole that Gap that he has so
in Ellie of course she had suffered from
the dust the smell and the heat that
drifted from that hole but she had no
idea what to do about them so this was
their
Christianity so and and unfortunately
you know Phil and Alie are not alone and
I wish we could we could say that but
that's unfortunate it is not so um if if
we are honest with with with with with
ourselves we will definitely know that
uh we struggle in many ways like they do
right in other places and we're going to
we're going to go through a few things
um that are want to show uh show us that
um many of us are are have this Gap that
I'm going to explain to you and that
this first chapter in this book explains
very very well so um we read the book
I'm not going to read this uh we just
read that uh we're going to cite some
some um verses from here but we're going
to skip it for now so what I want to do
is uh understand the gospel understand
that gospel Gap right so we're look at
the let's look at the symptoms of this
Gap if you will uh in the first one is
verse n what we read in Peter in in in
First Peter and um Peter talks about
there's people that that know God but
they they are failing to produce the
necessary fruit that we're supposed to
have of our faith right also um we we
know that there is no no there's little
or no peaceful relationships uh or
loving relationship with this this
people that have this Gap there's no uh
sweet natural day-by-day worship of the
lore no wholesome or balanced
relationship this is important to to
material things we have to have that
real balanc uh wholesome relationship to
that and therefore there is no spiritual
growth right so Peter says that we we
can become ineffective and unproductive
in many ways so um there's a drct Dr the
doctors here they have a conclusion let
me see if I can if I can find it for for
this for for f and Alie uh here here it
is here's the conclusion that they give
for this the story of F and Alie Peter
Peter's word describe Phil and Alie they
were ineffective and unproductive in
many ways the scars of conflict has so
crippled the their respect for each
other that there was little trust or
spontaneous affection left between them
they did not get along uh with their
neighbors and left three churches badly
there was little tenderness and
affection in their worship to God that
Christianity seemed more an ideology
than a worship driven relationship and
God's practical call on their lives was
more a duty to be performed than a joy
to be pursued it wasn't surprising that
filon Ali struggled with thatb uh
physical things had replaced spiritual
things long time ago and more than
anything else they seem stuck if you
have recorded their complaints against
each other 10 years ago the tape could
have been seamlessly inserted into any
of the arguments they had today so um we
asked or they asked why are so many
Christians ineffective and unproductive
we have the answer here in Peter when
Peter talks about in verse 9 uh that we
are or are let's say the those who had
the Gap right as you're going to
understand it nearsighted and
blind forgetting that they have been
cleansed from their past sins so
basically What's Happening Here is
that we are blind to the power and hope
of the gospel for today the here and now
so what does this mean here's where
where this Gap we start to understand in
the gaps right here in page three they
say that uh the good news of the Gospel
of Jesus Christ is a then now then
gospel what does that mean I think the
uh the figure here the the scripture
here is kind of like G gives it out we
think about when you think about the
gospel you think about the then when you
repented right you were forgiven God's
grace you were you obeyed the gospel and
you were justify that's the den of the
past then you think about the den of the
future that's glorification that's when
Christ come back or you go to be with
them uh in eternity right when we pass
away that's the the future hope that we
have in the gospel but the that that Gap
the the blind that we have or the the
the gospel Gap that they're talking
about is in the Here and Now of the
Gospel how does the go gospel of Christ
help us in the here and now today so
that's justification pass future is glor
ification and present the Here and Now
is sanctification so that's what what we
have uh here so let's see that's this
this those are the question that some of
the question that I found there what
different does the gospel makes in the
Here and Now how does it help me as a
father how does it help me as a husband
a worker a member of the body of Christ
those are the things that we need right
because we we we were Justified now
we're being Sanctified so we need the
help so we need to understand how the
gospel can help us in this areas right
how does it help me uh respond to
difficulty and as you guys know there
are many many too many to describe right
that we go through on a daily basis so
what about making decisions how does the
gospel help us make decisions on a daily
basis right so um how does it give me
meaning and purpose and identity so the
authors here they believe and and I
definitely agree that it is in the here
and now that many of us experience this
gospel blindness and we'll see why as we
continue uh going here so um let's see
here's some of the things that blind Us
in the here and now and of course
there's always something happening every
single day doesn't matter if you work
you go to school if you are retired or
some there always something happening so
so the Urgent is always is there we have
a rush to do something right um so what
about success the call for Success can
can blind us today if we're not careful
um uh let's see the seductive beauty of
physical things and this is this is when
we don't have that wholesome balanc
relationship with uh material things
this is where you have to be really
careful and what about the inability to
admit our own problems right this is
special and I I bold that I have this in
a different I'm I'm leading different
slides so M are coming Point by point so
but anyways the Casual you know I made
that really big and Bolder right this is
going to sting a little right if you're
honest most of our relationship here in
the church and this is heard in the
church are casual okay and if we're
going to be able to help one
another hear me when I say this we're
going to have to get more personal we're
going to have to
start getting to know one another for
real okay not just the casual thing how
you doing how was your week bye see you
later you know we have to be honest with
this so this is hurting uh the body of
Christ and this is what we call
Fellowship okay we have to be really
careful that that that can actually
blind Us in the here and now and also
preaching that fails to take the gospel
to uh specific challenges we Face Rex is
here so I'm not going to say anything
bad but we are doing really good on this
okay no we are we are really at least
we're doing really good on that
preaching that takes the gospel you know
we learn every Sunday every time that he
preaches that how the gospel is supposed
to help us right so anyway people here
people need to see and and this is
something the the author says that we
need to we need to see that the gospel
belong in our everyday lives everywhere
okay in your room in your house in your
work in in in your car when you go to
super Supermarket everywhere you you
walk everywhere you go on a daily basis
the gospel needs to be with you this
understanding of what the gospel does to
us in the here and now we need to do
that right we need to understand that so
and another thing that we need to
understand is that our life stories are
being lived out within God's larger
story right so that way we can learn to
live each day with a gospel mentality
okay okay and we you'll understand more
about this gospel G as we continue but
let's look at some of the things that
there's some uh three kinds of blindness
blindness that they share with us here
that we're going to look at them right
now and I really wish I had this on a on
a bullet by Bullet but here are three
kinds of blindness that that we learn in
this first chapter and the first one is
uh the blindness of identity and this
blindness of identity shows shows up in
two ways the first one is that we as
Christians sometimes
underestimate the presence and power of
indwelling sin and if you don't believe
me read Romans chapter 7 and you'll see
the Apostle Paul there talking about
that okay there's a war going on within
you okay forget about the outside and
you're want to hear this a lot today
let's see 6:32 we got an hour to go so
I'm just kidding we we have this war
within our hearts our inner person is
always fighting with sin right and again
reach Romans chapter 7 and you'll get a
really good picture of what what Paul is
talking about about this indwelling this
presence and power of the indwelling sin
um and also number two of course is that
uh Christians fail to to see our
identity in Christ and we have to be
really careful with that one uh because
we need need to know who we are in Jesus
when we become Christians you are now
when you once you obey the gospel you
are now a child of God and you know how
many privilege Privileges and and many
other things that comes with that
there's many there's power the holy
spirit is in you Christ is dwelling in
you right and Paul says um and I I'll
read this verse in a minute but second
Provisions there uh second blindness
rather
is that we have is to God's provision
and this is all from the first um
scripture that we read today and spirit
States here in Christ we have been given
everything we need we need for life and
godliness right and I say this every
time I get up here sometimes we read the
Bible and we just read it we're not
really paying attention we're not really
meditating on what God is saying God is
saying here through Peter we have been
given everything we need for life and
godliness have we ever wondered why he
uses two words here life and godliness
and I found this is this is something
that came from them um and it's because
the second word godliness is to qualify
the first one if God says you know you
have everything you need for life it
would have been really easy to put
eternal life somewhere right no but he
uses godliness you know what godliness
mean and I love this definition they
gave me godliness is a life it's an
honoring a god-honoring life it's a life
that honors God as simple as that that's
why God has given us everything that we
need for life and godliness for the Here
and Now everything right this is huge
now Paul says in Galatians 2 and verse
20 I no long I know you guys have have
seen this passage in this verse many
many times right I no longer live but
Christ lives in me not sure if you have
ever thought about this I never have I
never really sat down to say what Paul
is saying here he really means what he's
saying here right we were crucified
Romans chapter 6 with Christ when we
obey the gospel we were crucified into
his we baptized into his death so the
old man
is crucified so Paul can really say we
no longer
live but Christ lives in
us if you really think about this this
is absolutely powerful everybody know
what Emmanuel means
right God with with us right you think
it's when Christ was here or Emmanuel
steals with us here now remember all the
things that Christ said say you know go
preach the gospel and I'll be with you
till when till the end Christ is in us
right now if we forget this if we become
blind to this to this fact
um we can definitely forget who we are
they call it I think the the authors
call it gospel Amnesia we for identity
rather identity Amnesia we forget who we
are in Jesus in Christ so
um his presence in US of course he gives
us everything that we need to be who we
are and to do what we're supposed to do
now without and this is important
because this is what Biblical counseling
comes in without an awareness of
Christ's presence that you understand
that Christ lives in you right we tend
to live anxiously we we avoid hard
things and uh and we are easily
overwhelmed think about this right but
when you have a clear sense of identity
not only identity but also provision
what God provided um this gives us hope
it gives us hope and it gives us courage
to face the many struggles that we have
and all the Temptations that come our
way so we have to be aware that Christ
God has provided Jesus Christ not only
to died on the cross but to live with
within us through his spirit this is
powerful when you really understand that
and believe it and you act accordingly
this is powerful so that's number two
number three is Blindness to to God's
process if you see here God did not call
us to a life that we can say I have
spiritually arrived or or something like
I'm just waiting for heaven I'm just
cruising right uh there was a guy that
uh I think it's John D Barry that used
to see that we we're not to be sitting
on the chair of do nothing and lean back
on the on the armrest of do less or
something but it it was powerful but the
the point is that the life that God is
calling us is a life of constant work
constant work constant growth and
constant confession and repentance so
and this is important to know again
because if we don't understand the
process we can definitely suffer many
things right God he says God is not
working for our comfort or our ease
sometimes we think he is right but he's
not he is working on our growth right
so at the very moment we're tempted to F
or to question his
faithfulness he is fulfilling his
Redemptive promises to us and after all
like I said in the beginning it's not
like there only some people that need to
change Chang is the the norm for
everyone and God is always at work every
single day to complete this process in
us right and he is willing to sacrifice
our temporal happiness to make us holy
we need to understand that he is and he
does that's how we grow when things when
those bad things come our way right
James chapter 1 that's how we grow so
let's see moving on um so hopefully you
get a better idea again this is all in
chapter one if you buy the book you're
going to get a really good idea of what
this Gap is what it means and this is
only the introduction but you know when
you think about holes or gaps they don't
stay empty long they always fill with
something if it's in the RADS it's water
and the woods there's uh leaves and
things but H PHS the gospel Gap is not
the exemption to this Rule and if we
don't and I like this I like this
statement here I think it's page seven
if we do not live with a gospel shaped
Christ confident and change committed
Christianity that hope will get filled
with all the other the things and uh I'm
going to go through a few things in a
minute I'm going to give you a few
things that fill this Gap if we're not
careful if we have this Gap if we don't
realize it there's a few things that can
fill this Gap that are not true that are
not real and and Paul calls this in 2
Corinthians chapter 10 veres 4 and 5 I
never pay attention to this either I am
conf in here he called these things
pretentions right so not every lie is a
pretention but a pre a pretense is a
plausible lie right so I can tell you
that I I am a female World Boxing
Champion and that would be a straightup
lie and if I tell you I'm lightweight
even more easy to to to detect right but
if I tell you I'm a businessman and I'm
in front of an office I have some you
know maybe some Blueprints and I tell
you I I am a contractor I might be still
alive but it's it's a that's what a
pretense is it's a plausible you know
has some truth to it but it's not true
it's still a liive I'm not that that
contractor the bills houses right so um
the Apostle Paul called these things
pretentions and I I thought that was
very powerful let's see where we at um
so and he says they they say here that
the most dangerous pretentions are those
that masquerade as true Christianity but
are missing that identity provision
process that the core of the Gospel
right so uh they have their roots in the
truth and you will see this but they are
incomplete so and what what results from
this is a a Christianity that is mere
externalism right uh whenever we're
we're missing that message of Christ
indwelling work that to to progressively
transform us uh the hope will be filled
with this with this Christian lifestyle
that focuses more on the
externals uh that on the heart so um I'm
going give you a few let's see uh we've
been to this so what sorts of Christian
externals tend to fill the Gap and again
in page eight they say there are there
are all things that are a part of the
normal Christian Life each tends to
attract us at different time in
different ways right but I want you to
look at yourself right now I'm going to
read a few things look at yourself in
the following description so and ask
this question right here is it possible
that you have or we have a gap in our
understanding of the gospel and that it
has been F in ways that we didn't
realize so I'm going to see I'm going to
read them really quick uh hopefully we
are we're still doing okay in time so uh
let's see here are the things and again
I wish I had this Bullet by Bullet but I
don't have so these are all the things
that fill that gap of the Gospel right
so I'm going to find you some stories
because they do have some
stories uh let's see so Christians
externalism things that fill the Gap the
first one is as you guys see there is
formalism and they use again the names
are not real they're in the book if it
happens to be one of your names right if
you're here I don't mean that uh I'm
just reading
okay to formalism here it is if you want
to know the church calendar just look at
Joe's schedule whatever the the meeting
or the ministry Joe is there Bible in
hand he's done his stint as a Sunday
school teacher and regularly volunteers
for short-term mission trips he is
faithful and giving willing to volunteer
when work needs to be done around the
church but Jim's world and God's world
never meet all of his church activities
have little impact on his heart and now
and how he lives his life so you guys
remember the back in the Old Testament
the Jews were very formal and God didn't
he didn't like that right you think
about the Pharisees and and Christ in
Matthew 23 um Christ condemned that
formalism of the Pharisees they like to
be really formal right and standing on
the corners but it's because formalism
some of course it allows us to retain uh
control of our lives right our time our
agenda so but unfortunately re formalism
is blind to to the seriousness of our
spiritual condition and our constant
need for God's grace to rescue us and I
assess as I he in formalism the gospel
is reduced to participation in the
meetings and ministries of the church
that's one number two is legalism no
this Sally Sally is walk is a walking
list of dos and don'ts she has a set of
rules for everything there her way of
evaluating herself and everyone around
her her children live under the crushing
weight of her legalism to them go God is
a harsh judge who places unreasonable
standards on them and then condemns them
when they can't keep them there's no joy
in Sally's home because there's no Grace
to be celebrated Sally thinks that
forming her list gives her standing with
God so she has no appreciation for the
grace given her in Christ Jesus so
basically legalism again completely
misses the fact that you guys all know
that no one can satisfies God's
requirements while Sally here she
rigidly keeps her rules her Pride um her
rules her Pride impatience and
judgmental spirit
go
untouch it's it's very sad right so
legalism ignores the depth of our
inability again to earn God's favor so
in legalism is just not a reduction most
of them are reduced the gospel but this
one is is a whole it's another gospel
altogether when you think about legalism
if you read if you want to read the book
of Galatians you'll see there what the
Jews did they wanted to revert back to
keeping the law of Moses and being
circumcised and so on and so forth so
that's what legalism so mysticism is
number three and this is Christine
Christine kin from emotional emot
emotional experience to emotional
experience she is constantly hunting for
Spiritual height it's a a dynamic
encounter with God and because of this
she never stays with one Church very
long she's more a consumer of experience
than a committed member of the body of
Christ yet in between the dynamic
experiences uh Christine's Faith often
Falls flat she struggles with
discouragement and often finds herself
wondering if she's even a believer
despite the excitement of powerful
moments Christine is not growing in
faith and in character and again when
you think about uh religion Christianity
biblical faith is not without emotions
emotions have their place um but we have
to be really careful because we cannot
reduce the gospel again to that Dynamic
emotional experience with god
um here I I put the for mysticism it
reduces the gospel again to the dynamic
emotional and that spiritual experiences
and we cannot allow that to happen only
right so we have to be really careful
the next one is activism and this is
Shirley Shirley stands on the right to
life pick a line wondering why more
Christians are not there of course
cherle feels the same way about the
protest at the adult bookstore and her
work on the coming on the upcoming local
election and this causes Define what it
means to be a Christian her constant
refrain is stand up for what is Right
wherever and whenever it is needed
there's something to be admired about
sher's willingness here to devote time
energy and money to stand up for what is
right but a close examination sherley's
Christianity is more a defense of what
is right than a joyful pursuit of Christ
the focus of this kind of Christian
activism is always on the external evils
right and that's what happened to the
monasteries right you think about
Monastery they say there's an evil War
out there we're going to get back in
we're going to get just get out of it
and stay in our soul but they fail to to
count for the evil that is within every
one of those monks that wanted to leave
that evil so we have to be careful
because activism in the gospel is
reduced to participation in Christian
costes right next one is biblicism and
here biblicism is John John is a
Biblical and Theological expert his
theological Library includes rare
antique Christian volumes and he's
always seeking to buy first editions
John frequently uses phrases like
biblical worldview theological
consistent and thinking like a Christian
he loves the Bible which is a very good
thing but there are things in John's
life that don't seem to fit right
despite his dedicated study of
Christianity John is not known for being
like Christ he has a reputation for
being proud critical and intolerant of
anyone who lacks his fine grain
understanding of the faith John
endlessly critiques his uh preacher
sermons and he unnerves Sunday school
teachers when he enters the room do we
have any of those here that you nerves
the teachers when you go in the room we
don't have any of those um so again as
biblicism great thing to have great
thing to do but cannot be the only thing
because the gospel there is reduced to a
Mastery of biblical content and theology
right uh I think I like something they
say here um yeah and John here he said
he has invested a great deal of time and
energy mastering the word but he does
not allow the word to master him and
that's what we have to be really careful
next one is uh psychologism or
psychology ISM um in this one Jen Jen is
always has a group of people ministering
to her she talks a lot about how many
hurting people are in her congregation
and how the church isn't doing enough to
help them she's an Avid Reader of
Christian self-help books she's always
recommending the latest one to someone
uh she's often said she often says that
Christianity is the only place to find
real help and healing yet she doesn't
seem to find that healing herself Jen
spends much of her time discouraged and
often leaves Church meetings and tears
Jen is right that our deepest needs are
met in Christ but she sees Christ more
more as a therapist than a savior this
is what's going on here so Jen is
convinced that her deepest needs come
out of her experience of neglect and
rejection and so she sees herself more
in need of healing than Redemption very
dangerous and she's blind of course to
how demanding critical and self-absorbed
she actually is so again we have to be
really careful with that because in
Psychology it ISM the gospel is reduced
to the healing of emotional needs right
so the last one there is
socialism not the socialism that you
guys know here's George George was so
thankful for the relationships he had
found in the body of Christ they were
unlike any friendships he had
experienced before he he was so full of
joy for his Christian family that he
participated in any activity that put
him in contact with other believers
George loved his 20-some Bible study but
he particularly enjoyed going out with
the gang afterward he loved the Retreats
the camping trips trips he loved the
short-term missionary projects and for
the first time in his life George felt
alive and connected George George's
trouble started when one of his closest
friends was trans transferred out of
state and another friend got married
then his church call a new pastor who
decided to deemphasize or preacher to
decided to deemphasize Ministry to
singles when the small groups at his
church were reorganized George felt like
he was stuck with a group of older
married people who with whom he couldn't
relate right Church wasn't the same
anymore so he quit going to a small
group before long his attendance on
Sunday began to Wayne going to church he
said was like going to someone else's
family reunion
very sad to hear that so but he didn't
realize that his Fellowship acceptance
respect and the position in the body of
Christ had replaced his dependence on
that communion that we have or that we
need to have with Christ so in socialism
the gospel has been reduced to a network
of fulfilling Christian relationship and
we are really short on time so I'm going
to rush to this next next few slides so
why are this replacement so attractive
right to many of us is because if you
think about it all of this isms right
that we consider they're very attractive
because first they emphasize one
important aspect of the Gospel right and
because the if you think about it all of
thing that we saw the gospel does call
us to to lead a Godly life to to gather
with people the God's people in
Fellowship to influence the world for
good right activism uh to love the truth
biblicism to meditate on the truth again
to be enthusiastic participants in The
Fellowship of the body of Christ and to
of course expect God to meet us right um
in all of our sorrow so but the issue
comes when we this this all of these
things are means to an end but when we
make one of those things the end right
instead of the mean that's when we get
in trouble so we have to be really
really careful with this but there's
another deeper reason why this this isms
are so attracting is because each one of
each one of them uh in a way it appeals
to one of the spiritual problems that we
need to address right think about uh
self-righteousness this this isms right
they appeal to our self-righteousness we
cite Romans chapter 3 again um where it
says there's no one who does good we do
that we say that a lot right no one who
does good not even one but when it come
to us right we're not that bad right
we're not that bad but no that's because
our self-righteousness we want to we we
need to understand that the only
righteousness we have is because of
Christ they also appeal to our
selfishness of course we want to be at
the center of the universe so we want to
feel like we're doing something uh great
for the ca of Christ and then they
appeal to our envir Environmental ISM
and of course that's when we tend to
believe that the sin around us is more
dangerous than the sin that resides in
us we have to be careful because Christ
came to save you from yourself not from
the from the world around you right so
we have to be really careful and they
appeal of course to our independence or
self-sufficiency self-sufficiency so um
it is is very uncomfortable to to really
think of ourselves as as needy or weak
but the truth is that we are and that's
exactly why Christ is the only answer to
our issue so we're getting to the end
here um we we really need to understand
the gospel um and again it's great that
we understand that our sins were
forgiven uh when we obey the gospel
that's past Grace that's justification
we it's great to understand that that
we're going to spend eternity because
you obey the gospel you are promis
eternal life right that's glorification
that's being with God but we really need
need to understand the depth of our need
for the benefits of the work of Christ
the here and now and this is what this
book that's pressing Grace or
sanctification so it is not enough to
embrace Christ's promises um of life
after death we must also Embrace his
promise of life before death Abundant
Life I had that subject too but I I had
to postpone it for this one because I
think this book is here is really good
um
so that's what this whole study is about
right uh celebrates and this these are
questions from the book it celebrates
past Grace keeps an eye on future Grace
but the primary focus of this book is on
the present Grace how does the gospel of
Christ help us right now to overcome
like he says Cheer Up cheer Brothers God
has overcome the world crisis overcome
so how does God grow and changes while
we live here on Earth why what has
Christ given to help me with the tough
conversation with my spouse last Tuesday
night how does his grace impact a
person's struggle with depression or
fear how what has Christ given to help
me deal with the pressures of parenting
or the workplace what provision has he
made for my struggles with lust fear
materialism right what do repentance and
change actually look like this are good
questions listen why why do we struggle
with one area of sin more than another
doing the thing that we never intended
to do and those are the kind of
questions that will be addressed in this
book so here it is at the end uh Christ
abiding in you we'll come back to this
one Christ abiding in US is a
celebration right so let me show you
these are the books and we're really
running uh short here these are the two
books right there how people change is
what I just introduced to you that will
be the introductory chapter if you buy
it believe me it's going to be worth
every penny every cent in gold right the
other book uh from the same authors
instruments in the redeemer's hands
these are the first two books of a long
list that I have that are training us to
be biblical counselor to to be able to
do personal Ministry it's the same thing
that Rex does on a public manner but on
the personal level so that's what we're
trying to do and this books teach you
how to do that not only teach you how
people change but also how you can be an
instrument and helping other people
change so um let's see if I can go back
here um I wanted to read something
before we close and I know we're going a
little over but I thought their their
closing was really good so I have to say
this so this whole study of course is
more than an explanation of the
Christian Life it is a celebration of
the Lord and his daily provision of
Grace that's how people change that I'm
talking about uh we are invited to when
we read the book we are invited to
celebrate a Grace that not only forgives
but that changes us from the deepest
darkest corners of our hearts to the
smallest action and every Idol word for
which we will be judged so no matter how
no matter what you struggle with uh
right now no matter how successful you
are no matter how stuck you are or you
see yourself to be no matter how young
no matter how old you are in the faith
no matter if you are no matter if you're
a man or a woman a boy or a girl if you
are Christ's child there is hope for you
this is this is
huge and uh that hope is not based on
who you are or what you know your hope
is Jesus that one person one God Jesus
himself he lives in you he lives in us
and because of of that you have a reason
we have a reason to celebrate each new
day when we do that we can say like Paul
says we no longer live but Christ lives
in us if you are here tonight and you
have not obeyed the gospel of Christ
that is as simple as believing that
Jesus is the son of God that he came
from Heaven to Earth to died in our
place right
that he is God In the Flesh he came to
offer his life so that you and I can
have that hope of eternal life how do
you obey the gospel by believing that he
is the Son of God by repenting of your
sins understanding that he died because
of your sins my sins you confess him
before men right if you confess him
before men he'll confess you before the
father and then you are buried with him
through baptism so that all men can be
crucified and you can be raised to a new
person that is in Romans chapter 6: 3
and on so tonight if you have a need if
you are in Christ and you're living and
you have this gospel Gap this blindness
that we talked about you identify
yourself you can also come forward and
we can uh help you in any way we can as
Together We Stand and sing
