stewardship is management is the theme
for today and and that's serious
business being a manager uh you know we
often laugh about management and
managers and but it's really not a joke
I heard of a woman who was in a hot air
balloon and suddenly she realized she
was lost she didn't know where she was
so she reduced the air and began to drop
came up got down low enough where he
could see somebody and she shouted out
to someone below he says excuse me can
you help me uh I promised a friend that
I would meet him an hour ago but I
actually don't know where I am right now
and the man below says well you're in a
hot air
balloon hovering approximately 30 feet
above the
ground but you're between 40 and 41
degrees north latitude and 59 and 60
degrees west latitude
the woman replied you must be a
technician he said 'well I am how did
you know that said 'w everything you
told me is probably technically correct
but I have no idea what you make of your
information and the fact is I I still
lost and frankly you've not been much
help at all if anything you've delayed
my trip with your
talk the man below responded well you
must be in
management she said I am but how did you
know said well you don't know where you
are or where you're
going you have risen to where you are
due to a large quantity of hot
air you made a promise which you have no
idea how to keep and you expect people
beneath you to solve your problems
the fact is you were in exactly the same
position you were in before we met but
now somehow it's all my
fault like
Paul we have been
entrusted we've been entrusted with
various stewardships from the Lord 1
Corinthians 9:17 I have been entrusted
with the
stewardship Colossians 1 stewardship
from God which was given to me
for you never forget your stewardships
were g a gift Galatians 2 The Gospel for
the UN uncircumcised has been committed
to me he was
entrusted Philippians 1 says I am
appointed for the defense of the Gospel
he didn't choose it he was appointed 1
Thessalonians 2 says he was entrusted
with the gospel 1 Timothy 1 he says the
gospel which I have been with which I
have been entrusted
here's the truth all that you have all
the responsibilities you have you did
not get you were
given but you have been
entrusted that means someone trusted you
with
this like Paul we have been entrusted
with special stewardships from God take
a look at about three of them the
stewardship of the mysteries of God and
1 Corinthians 4 was mentioned in the
reading moment ago and that young man
does such a great job doesn't
he let a man so consider us as Servants
of Christ and stewards of the mysteries
of God so it's our responsibility we
have been entrusted with things that are
Mysteries to the people of the
world the stewardship of the Church of
God has been given to us 1 Timothy 3
says take care of the Church of God and
Titus one that's what a bishop is to do
he's a steward of God is a bishop of the
church and the stewardship also extends
to that of the grace of God we've been
given the grace of God therefore we are
stewards of the grace of God Ephesians 3
says the stewardship of God's grace was
given to me Paul says 1 Peter 4 as good
stewards of the manifold or
multi-leveled uh grace of God so those
are your gifts as well you're
responsible for for them I am too I'm
responsible for the mysteries of God the
Church of God and The Graces of
God thus biblical stewardship is caring
for and managing the resources of God
that would include uh the land the
plants the animals but more importantly
the people we've been told this from the
beginning Genesis 2 mentions exactly God
took man and put him in a garden to tend
it and to keep it that is to protect it
and to make sure it would grow in
Deuteronomy chapter 8 God gives you
power to get wealth so if you've done
well you did not even get that on your
own you got the power to get there and
it did not come from you Psalm 24 says
the Earth is the Lord's and all its
fullness so all that we possess all that
we have is actually his Psalm 50 verse
12 says the world is mine and all its
fullness so whatever has been added to
it we think by us still belongs to him
in Acts chapter 4 it speaks of the
disciples the early disciples understood
this concept and it says those who
believed were of one heart and one soul
and neither did anyone say that any of
the things he possessed was his
own that's a good attitude that's the
attitude we should have what are those
kinds of things that we possess that we
have stewardship over time is one of
them your life you only have so many
minutes so many
seconds the Temple of your body is one
of them it's
strictly up to you how you deal with it
your talents your gifts your treasure
your
wealth your trust the work that God
gives you to do and the work that you
make a living through your theology that
is your Bible in your lap or on your
device and how you handle it they all
belong to God your testimony doesn't
belong to you it belongs to him and so
we are stewards and in stewards we must
learn to manage the things we've been
given and so as a Christian we're not
about trying to get all your money out
of your pocket like you might hear some
Churches almost sound like that that's
not our goal our goal is that you manage
what you have that is your goal and a
part of that obviously is to give but it
is to be a good manager first and
foremost of it all so I want us to walk
through just three little biblical
concepts of stewardship this morning
that aren't really little bitty but it
won't sound like they're big number one
uh oh I pushed it Forward I messed
up number one stewardship is supposed to
be a reverential and respectful
management and I'm using this term
specifically and I think this is a term
not used in the business world and it's
a mistake and it's often not used in the
Christian world and it's a mistake the
first and foremost requirement of being
a good Steward is to treat what you have
with
reverence with
reverence this is
sacred and it's from God
and there needs to be a reverent sacred
attitude about this and I'm going to
take you to this one passage I ask you
to turn to Genesis 24 maybe in your
Bibles and I'm going to read all of
these verses you've got up there I would
read the whole book whole chapter but
that would take quite a while so I'm
trying to cut it down into about a third
of what I would read and Genesis 24
beginning with verse one it says now
Abraham was old well advanced in age and
the Lord had blessed Abraham in all
things now we're going to see someone
who worked for Abraham right but by
seeing what he's like you're going to
learn a lot about Abraham but that's not
why we're we're not doing it to learn
about Abraham we're doing it to learn
about this man who is unnamed in the
text verse two so Abraham said to the
oldest servant of his house who ruled
over all that he had so this was a a man
that Abraham totally trusted right you
got to be trustworthy to be a a steward
right this was his TR Steward that was
over everything and he says this put
your hand under my thigh this is the way
they swore to each other and verse three
and I will make you swear by the Lord
the god of Heaven and the god of Earth
that you will take a wife for my son uh
that you will not take a wife for my son
from the daughters of the Canaanites
among whom I dwell he didn't consider
them respectable people verse n so the
servant put his hand under his under the
thigh of Abraham his master and swore to
him concerning this matter now this is a
man who was already trusted but he's
asking him to swear so he's making this
very serious by the way your
stewardships are very serious
matters verse 12 then he said oh Lord
God of my master Abraham please give me
success this is day he left and on his
way doing this but now he starts to pray
this is a man who believed in prayer
where did he learn that probably Abraham
oh Lord God of my master Abraham please
give me success this day and show
kindness to my master Abraham and it
happened before listen to this before he
had finished speaking the Lord reacted
that quick to his prayer don't you think
about that before he had finished
speaking that behold Rebecca who was
born to Bethel son of milai the the wife
of nahor Abraham's brother came out with
her pitcher on her shoulder he had no
idea he was near that family verse 17
and the servant ran this is an old man
remember old men don't run and the
servant ran to meet her and said please
let me drink a little water from your
picture verse 21 and the man wondering
at her he's just gloring at the fact
that God is doing something here and
he's watching it and the man wondering
at her remained silent so as to know
whether the Lord had made his journey
prosperous or not verse 26 then the man
bowed down his head when she did exactly
what he had prayed about he bowed down
his head and worshiped the Lord this is
a reverent
man this is not just a boss this is not
just a manager any dime a dozen men can
be a manager and do a bad job of that
but if you want to be a good manager you
need to be a reverent individual a
respectful person who bows his head and
worships the Lord verse 31 and he said
come in oh blessed of the Lord this is
when he gets to her house why do you
stand outside because he just stood out
there he wouldn't go go in until he was
asked for I have prepared the house and
the place for the camels that was
because the daughter had told him this
was who he was verse 33 food was set
before him this is this still the
steward Su was set food was set before
him to eat but he said I will not eat
until I have told about my errand
there's some things more important than
food and he said speak on verse 35 the
Lord has blessed my master greatly and
he has become great and he has given him
flocks and herds and silver and gold and
male and female servants and camels and
donkeys listen to how respectful he is
toward Abraham verse 37 now my master
made me swear saying you shall not take
a wife for my son from the daughters of
the Canaanites in whose land I dwell
verse
40 but he said to me the Lord before
whom I walk will send his Angel this is
what Abraham had told him the Lord
before whom I walk will send his angel
with you and prosper your way and you
shall take a wife from my son from my
family and from my father's
house this guy believed that verse 45 do
you believe in angels verse 45 be before
again he remember he before he' finished
praying now listen he makes reference to
it to Beth but before I had finished
speaking in my heart I was in the middle
of praying and God did something before
I had finished speaking in in my heart
so he didn't even say these words out
loud there was Rebecca coming out with
her pitcher on her shoulder and she went
down to the well and Drew water and I
said to her please let me drink verse 48
and after she did everything that he had
prayed about verse 48 he says and I
bowed my head and worshiped the Lord and
blessed the Lord God of my master
Abraham who had led me in the way of
Truth to take the daughter of my
Master's brother for his son do you see
how much he's honor ing the Father the
Lord God this is a reverent man I don't
know his
name isn't that need verse 52 and it
came to pass when Abraham's servant
heard their words they told him yes he
go she would go with him that's
surprising he worshiped the Lord
again and bowing himself to the
earth I hope you do that I know it's
difficult
here I know it's difficult I mean
getting down on the floor and getting up
and there's not enough room between it
but I hope the only bowing you do is not
just closing your eyes or tilting your
head I hope you bow yourself to the
Earth verse 56 and he said to them do
not hinder me since the Lord has
prospered my the Lord made this happen
the Lord do you get it the Lord has
prospered my way send me away so that I
may go to my master you want to know
someone who's truly a good manager and
truly a good Steward is one who's
reverential and respectful that's when
you know that they figured it out that's
how you know number
two stewardship is supposed to be
responsible and accountable
management let's go to Genesis 39 in
Genesis 39 if you returning going to
start in verse four so Joseph found
favor this is after he sold as a slave
got you know what most people would do
they'd develop a really bad
attitude and they wouldn't work
hard but look what Joseph does he's a
slave now in a foreign country doesn't
know their
language so Joseph found favor in his
sight and served him then he made him
overseer of his house wow he must have
done a good job and all that he had he
put under his authority that's poer
verse five so it was from the time he
had made him overseer of his house and
all that he had that the Lord blessed
the Egyptian house for Joseph's sake
what does that mean that means Joseph
did his job he didn't just do it good he
did it
great and the blessing of the Lord was
on all that he had in the house and in
the field
everything Joseph touched was done
well verse six thus he left all that he
had in Joseph's hands now let me add to
that that doesn't mean it all came
because Joseph did it well Joseph did it
well and the Lord blessed
him and he left all that he had in
Joseph's hands and he that is Piper did
not know what he had except for the
bread which was what he
ate now Joseph was handsome in form and
appearance like all you
gentlemen that was funny verse
19 so it was when his master heard The
Words which his wife spoke to him saying
your servant did to me after this manner
that his anger was aroused you know
what's amazing he didn't kill
him he didn't kill it makes me think
maybe he wasn't sure if he believed him
and maybe he's angry at her I don't know
but anyway he he did the next thing
verse 20 then Joseph's Master took him
and put him in the prison a place where
the king's prisoners were confined and
he was there in prison by the way the
word for prison there is the word
roundhouse it isn't the word prison as
you imagine it the word is roundhouse he
put him in the
roundhouse The Roundhouse not a lot
known about it but basic basically they
say about prisons in
Egypt it's the place that no one gets
out
of you just walk
around verse 22 and The Keeper of the
prison so now Joseph could have
developed a really really really bad
attitude life has been hard on me I mean
I was sold as a slave now I'm in prison
and now I'm going to just I'm not going
to do anything nice to anybody ever
again it's all gone wrong but that's not
what Joseph
did Joseph didn't do that
Joseph The Keeper of the prison
committed to Joseph's hands all the
prisoners he was so responsible he's so
responsible who were in the prison
whatever they did it was his
doing he were over was over every one of
them and they did exactly what the
prisoner guys wanted them to do in a
place that were probably never getting
out of and Genesis
40:4 and the captain of the Guard this
is later and the captain of the Guard
charged Joseph with them that is the two
that went to prison you remember that he
had dreams
about charged Joseph with them in other
words he didn't just put him in the
prison he put him in the prison to the
boss of the prison which was no longer
the boss of the prison but it was Joseph
who was the responsible one and he put
it in in his
charge and he served them that means he
took care of them he espcially took care
of them so they were in custody for a
while in Luke 16:2 it says so he called
him and said to him what is this I hear
about you he been found out this
particular Steward in in Luke 16 had
been not a very good Steward and had not
made everything work right and what is
this I hear about you give an account of
your stewardship for you can no longer
be Steward here's the truth no matter
who you are somebody can hold you
accountable and if nobody can hold you
accountable you're a Loose Cannon and
you're a problem everybody needs to be
held accountable amen amen
husbands we all need to be held
accountable amen amen and that's true of
wives too amen wives and that's true of
children too amen children don't your
parents have the right to hold you
accountable quit acting like they have
no right to talk to you that way they
have absolute right to talk to you how
they need to to get you to
comply amen
walls amen
walls the kids ain't going to amen that
but they need to hear
it and you as a good Steward need to
hold them accountable and vice versa
everybody needs to be held accountable
because the truth is we all all need to
be responsible because we are
responsible and someone will hold us
responsible number last so stewardship
is supposed to be a reliable and
faithful management that's what we read
a moment ago in 1 Corinthians 4 and
verse two moreover it is required in
stewards that one be found faithful and
by the way the word there is for an
under rower you never got out of
there you got chained up at the bottom
of the boat and you
rode what you do tomorrow what did you
do last
week when you stop rowing when you
die you never get out you go into a
battle you're the first to
drown your job was to
row Paul says I'm an under
rower that's what kind of Steward I
am chain upb doing my job to the
end moreover it is required in stewards
that one be found faithful just do the
next thing what's the next
thing just the next
thing tomorrow every day Luke
12:42 and the Lord said who then is that
faithful and wise Steward whom his
master will make ruler over his
household this talking about at the end
to give them their portion of food in
due season who's God going to do that
with somebody who's done it
here Genesis 43 and 44 Joseph had
Steward so we heard about Joseph right
Joseph had stewards you ever noticed how
he dealt with those guys he told them to
do things and you know what they did it
he asked them to hide stuff they did it
he's asked them to get those guys they
did it whatever he said to do they did
it that's what stewards
do stewardship is supposed to be a
reliable and faithful management so
that's the simple lesson what I just
brought to you so stewardship is
reverential it's responsible it's
reliable because it reflects on
everything it reflects on your time your
talent your temple your Treasures your
trust your theology your
testimony
stewards like elders
like
deacons like Bible class teachers like
ministers like
members what's our real Duty Care for
people and
realize that
money and
buildings and
stuff and paper are not the
job it's the people amen and the other
stuff doesn't matter that much it's the
people people are our management
stewardship calling David Li
Livingston had a
reverent Kingdom attitude toward people
listen to what he said I don't know if
you know David Livingston much but if
you've done any work in Africa you've
heard about him and you might even been
to his
town he was well-known congregationalist
missionary to Africa and an Explorer he
had an attitude that challenged almost
anybody in stewardship he said this I
place no value on anything I have or may
possess except in relation to the
kingdom of God if anything will advance
the interest of the kingdom it shall be
given away or kept or only as by giving
or keeping it I shall most prom
I mean most promote the glory of him to
whom I owe all my hopes in time or
eternity whatever he
needs Lloyd C Douglas in a book called
The Living Faith tells of a man called
Thomas Hearn and Thomas Hearn is the
interesting one actually I didn't put
his name up there but it's an
interesting one it seems Thomas Hearn
was on a journey to the mouth of the
coppermine river in
Canada he's going through the Canadian
wilderness and he brought a perspective
to adversity that I think maybe we all
need to pick up
on so a few days into their expedition
they were uh robbed by a party of local
Indians who stole most of their supplies
and they were left with almost nothing
and this is what he wrote in his diary
the next day this is
perspective the weight of our baggage
being so much lightened our next Day's
Journey was more Swift and
pleasant that's all he said it was
easier to move the next day we didn't
have to carry all that
stuff not
everybody has a people first mentality
and the responsibility of the people
Adam Grant wrote a book called givers
take
all and he tells a really really
interesting story I don't know if you've
heard this story but it's worth
listening to is in
1985 there was a film company that
you'll know who they are in just a
minute it was a film company who was in
trouble financially probably about to go
under so they decided to hire a new
president they got a new president in
his job was to bring the ship right you
know get them going in the right
direction
financially so this President brought
the two leaders of a division in whose
names were Ed and Alvi he brought Ed and
Alvi in and he said we're going to have
to conduct some
layoffs and Ed and Alvi resisted it they
said uh I think you'll diminish the
value of the company if we start laying
off people and know the the new
president says I want a list on my desk
tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. and you're going
to put the names of the people who are
going to be laid off that's the way it's
going to
be the next morning at 9:00 Ed Alvi put
a list on his desk it was the name of Ed
and
Alvi lay us
off don't lay them
off there were no layoffs
few months later fellow you may have
heard of before Steve
Jobs bought the division from lucas
films and started what you may have
heard of
Pixar and Ed calel and alvie Ray
Smith were the guys who stood in the gap
for the
employees and the employees were
grateful that manag managers would put
their own jobs on the line for the good
of their team so much so that Stanford's
Robert Sutton still Marvels at it and
says even to this day over a quarter of
a century later since that happened the
people who work there talk about it and
they say it still drives and inspires
the people at Pixar that their managers
care more about them than their own
jobs Les you think all of this
stewardship thing is about money
stewardship is not about money it's
first and foremost about
people you got to take care of the
people stewardship is managing people
and the first people you got to manage
is
me I got to learn to manage me amen and
then maybe I can learn to manage my
family and then maybe I can learn to
manage uh my workers and maybe then I
can learn to manage people at church I
don't know but the first thing to do is
manage me and so if I'm not right with
God I am not a good
manager if you're not right with God
this morning you have not been a good
Steward managing your responsibilities
your first responsibility is to manage
yourself and maybe this morning you need
to manage yourself and repent of your
sins confess the name of Christ and be
baptized or maybe you need to rededicate
yourself to the cause whatever you need
we stand ready to try to help you as one
may already be on their way would you
start managing Yourself by coming while
we stand and while we sing
