so a good report is liked by pretty much
everybody we all like a good report uh
Proverbs 15:30 says a good report makes
the bones healthy we like to see a good
report a good outcome as a doctor uh
walking in to see a patient in the
examination room and he quickly grabbed
uh that clipboard as you know that has
the details on it as he walked into the
room and the patient ask well doc how's
my health he just had a bunch of tests
and the doctor says well I have some
good news and I have some bad news well
this patient was ever an optimist he
says well doc give me the good news
first and the doctor smiled and look
down at the report it says okay the good
news is that you are glowing with health
and you will probably live for a very
very long time and so the patient said
well that's great he smiled he said
that's great he says well that's great
but why what's the bad stuff what is the
bad news now Doc and the doctor looked
at the chart for a moment and
uncomfortably said uh the bad news is
that I'm starting to think I've grabbed
the wrong chart and you're not M my
patient Mr Allan
Anderson yeah good reports are good we
want them we don't want bad reports in
fact bad report is disliked by all
nobody wants to hear bad news and that's
true even when they were trying to get
into Canaan land bad reports caus doubts
numbers 13:32 says they gave a bad
report saying the land is a land that
devours its inhabitants and all the
people are of great statute by the way a
bad report does the same thing to a
church it creates doubts bad reports
cause discouragement Pro uh numbers
14:36 and he made all the congregation
complain bringing in a bad report so
their bad report about the land made the
people start complaining and being
discouraged bad reports can cause death
that sounds cran but I not only can a
church uh get discouraged a church can
die just like people but numbers 14:37
says those very men who brought the evil
report died by the plague maybe bringing
a bad report is dangerous so I'm trying
to get across to you this simple idea
that we need to be a group of people
about reporting to each other you may
not see what I'm talking about today is
that significant this may be the most
significant thing we do as a
church because we're not open and honest
with you about what's really going on
that's not much of a church we need to
be right there up front and a good
report should occasionally not be spread
how about that concept A good report
should not be spread if you're biblical
that's true in Mark 7 and: 36 he
commanded them that they should tell no
one some good report should not be
spread well how could that ever
be uh
well
benevolence we take care of one of you
and we help you out and you're in a
tight financially you want us to get up
next Sunday and tell who you were how
much money we spent on you and what we
did for
you not going to
happen so some things shouldn't be told
even good things yes even good things
and so there are many good things that
will happen in this church you will
never hear a word about and that's
exactly the way it should
be and there's some good reports that
just should not be spread because of
another reason Proverbs 27:2 let another
man praise you and not your own mouth
churches that brag about themselves are
not really healthy churches to sit
around and brag and say what all the
great things we've done you may think
that's a wise thing to do it's not a
Biblical thing to do so when we've done
something good let the people out there
brag about it's not
us let them do
it some good reports are for self- Glory
and therefore shouldn't be made in
Matthew chap 6 verse1 it sayso not do
your Deeds before men to be seen by them
otherwise you have no reward when you
make a report that makes it sound
wonderful and it's just done so you'll
say what a good boy you are no that's
not appropriate and they shouldn't be
made and some good reports are for God's
glory Matthew 5 and: 16 let your light
shine before men that they may see your
good works and glorify your father in
Heaven so if it Praises God then that's
a different thing when it Praises us
maybe we need to zip it and not talk
about it at all and let someone else say
something that's true for each one of us
individually is it not a little less as
a church so there are good reports
though that should not be spread but
then there's good P reports that should
be spread Jesus
is such a case as the Messiah he just
cast out demons and it says in Luke
4:37 the report about him about Jesus
went out into every place in the
surrounding region when you make your
focus glorifying God and his son Jesus
Christ that report needs to go out to
everyone and Jesus says the Messiah
raised the dead this one time and Luke
7:17 says the report about him when went
throughout all Judea and all the
surrounding region so that's appropriate
we should honor him and the reports
about what God does should be lted and
we should do that in our prayers Lord
thank you for the fish thank you for the
birds thank you for the sky thank you
for the rainbows thank you for the grass
let little children do it all the time
thank you for the little bitty things
thank you for our meals absolutely God
gets credit it on every level and we
should make that our focus and we should
report that to the world and to all that
we know but when we start saying oh
aren't we a great church y'all see this
building we've
built careful so here we go here are the
lessons today a good budget report
should be worshipful and comprehensive
if you're going to do a good budget
report it should be worshipful and
comprehensive listen to these scriptures
acts 142 7 they reported all that God
had done with them you pick up on a
couple of things they reported all
comprehensive God had
done good reports are worshipful and
comprehensive Acts 15: 3 and 4 verse 4
says they reported all things God had
done with
them again all things God did
in Acts 21: 18 and 19 verse 19 only says
he told in detail those things which God
had done among the Gentiles through his
ministry are you getting the point now
everything all of the details all the
details that God has done that's
appropriate so we want to be detail
oriented but we want to give God credit
the focus must be on God and God's work
not on us not on what we do but on God
and God's work you go the other
direction you're asking for trouble and
it needs to be worshipful and
comprehensive number two if you want to
have a good report and this is what
we're talking about a good budget report
you should be witnessed and
Cooperative witnessed and Cooperative
listen to Acts chapter 6 beginning of
verse three Brethren you remember how in
that text the widows were being
neglected in the daily ministration of
the food it says in verse three Brethren
seek out from among you seven that means
Witnesses people that will know what's
going on not one guy don't go get a guy
and put him over that but get seven men
of good reputation of good reputation so
it needs to be seven so they can
cooperate and they all have good
reputation that way no one will question
what's going on whom we may appoint over
this business in Acts 11: 29 through 30
verse 30 Alone says and they sent it to
the elders this is all they went out and
gathered all of this cuz there's a
family coming they brought it back in
and this is what they did and they all
sold their stuff and because the people
had been turning their back the Jews
were turning their backs on their own
fellow men because they become
Christians so if we're going to take
care of the needy they immediately had
to start doing that that's why the
church does that at the very beginning
the back the back was being turned and
so they sold their possessions of lands
and they did that kind of thing but they
sent these things to the elders by
Barnabas and Saul so they went out and
that's what we're reading actually in
Corinthians where they go out and they
gather up among the Gentile churches and
bring it back in and they sent it to the
elders a group of men who were trusted
and that was sent by Barnabas and Saul
to men who were trusted so it's
witnessed and it cooperated that means
not one man ever sees the money are you
listening to me if you know of a church
that one man sees the money or if you
know a missionary where only one man
sees the money that's not safe we don't
do that
here we have multiple eyes on the money
all the time and 2 Corinthians chapter
8: 18-22 was read to you I'll just read
verse 21 providing honorable things not
only in the sight of the Lord so you say
well the Lord knows what we did that's
not good enough listen to what it says
provide guiding honorable things not
only in the sight of the Lord but also
in the sight of men this is why we
believe in sponsoring congregations not
because all the missionaries out on the
world are liars and cheats although some
of them are that's not the reason we do
it because we want you to have
confidence in what's going on and you
need multiple eyes looking at the money
at all times and so how do we do that
here well we have
counters Marvin Phillips does a great
job dwi's also in charge of one of the
budgets but we also have a an annual
audit and the elders are looking at the
money all the time so if you think
nobody's looking at all of this uh I
seldom look at it so that order to give
you sense of comfort right
there H I've seldom know where we are
praise the Lord so that give you give
yourself some comfort so a good budget
report should be witnessed and
Cooperative third
point a good budget report should be
worthy and Cooperative in Acts chap 2:
44 and 45 it says all who believed had
all things in common so they believed in
it they believed in the Lord but they
believed in what they were doing and
they had all things in
common they were cooperating together
Acts 4: 34-37 says as they were
possessors of land like I told you a
moment ago are they getting cut off from
the people around them possessors of
land they sold and bought brought the
proceeds in verse 35 and laid them
here's the point and laid them at the
apostles feet and they distributed as
anyone had need in verse 37 says they
sold their things and brought the money
and laid it at the apostles feet now
there's a significance to laying it at
the apostles feet now we don't have
Apostles like they had although we do
have missionaries which is a similar
thing and acts 5: 12- 13 talking of the
12 it says in verse 13 none dare join
them but the people esteem them highly
so what I'm trying to suggest is the
reason they gave the money to the
apostles to take care of them is because
they trusted them they knew they were
honest so they were trusted men they
were not biased and they were not
nepotistic so we don't have a group of
Elders that just take care of theirs and
ignore
yours right simple concept and and they
are trusted men so that's the lesson
look at that you're through boom we're
not done but uh we're close so that
that's a lesson so a good report any
kind of report for a church that is a
good report should be worshipful that
mean it should be god-honoring and it
should be comprehensive it should cover
everything and then a good report that's
going to be received and everybody's
going to like it should be witnessed and
Cooperative there ought to be multiplied
seeing it so they could all say yeah
that's what we did yeah that's what
we're doing yeah yeah yeah yeah I saw it
yeah that's good so it needs to be
cooperative not just witness but
Cooperative so people actually say yeah
I saw it and a good budget report should
be worthy and Cooperative it should be
something we all believe in and it
should be something that we all want to
cooperate with that's it that's how you
ought to do Financial reports so now
here we come to the plan budget we're
not going to take long here but I you do
need to hear what I got to say so like I
said there is a detailed report you want
to see all the details they're in the
forer they not going to be many of you
do it I only put about 10 out there
because there's not one in 10 they want
to look at this kind of detail six eight
pages of little bitty expenses down to
the dollar but it is available and if we
run out I'll make some more I got one up
here so if you miss out I'll give you
the one I
got church business if you look at the
totals we have budget um building debt
we owe on this and what we're doing uh
finances that's just required to do some
of the banking we do insurance has gone
out of sight some of you know that on
your home insurance it's got ridiculous
on this plant and office supplies and
equipment that's just basically to give
you much of the stuff that's being
printed out for you and then of course
Vehicles which we're down on that not
too much anymore 317,000 so then it's
Church Ministry these are the things
that we're actually here about that's
what we have to do these are the things
we're actually about we want to
advertise or let people know what we're
teaching what we're trying to do here
benevolence when we do good deeds for
people who can't do for themselves
buildings and grounds we have to keep
this place up so that you can come in
here such as electricity and all that
kind of thing education uh that's so
that you can go to a Bible class and
have some material evangelism that's to
help other people elsewhere like the one
we're going to be having uh um here in a
just few months we got uh some events on
evangelism coming up we got a guest
speaker coming in uh family life that's
uh ministering to people who are not
doing well hurting trying to encourage
them Fellowship uh y'all all enjoy that
uh ministering staff that probably needs
to be cut but any way that's still there
missions uh that's like I said a guy
coming next week worship supplies and
equipment believe it or not the stuff
that we use here
uh even the Lord's Supper has to be
supplied and youth activities that's
Keegan we should cut that but
anyway 527,000 just for that section so
if you put it together it's $845,000
that's $16,244.73
but there's no reason to doubt or be
discouraged because we actually have the
money I'm not worried members are
motivated to give according to their
interest and their values people give
according to their interest and their
values so Church business is what gets
some people's attention they like to
know about the operating expenses that's
a big thing to some some it's all about
buildings because they see buildings is
the way that we will grow that's a valid
argument then of course there's General
church ministry which is like missions
or Sunday school or Bible classes
preacher training uh Christian education
or of the charitable things we do the
helps we give and the services we
provide that help man humanitarian
issues those are all important too and
whatever floats your boat I understand
you say well I think it ought to be all
this well everybody does agree with you
so everybody doesn't see and value the
same things as much as other things but
these are all good things that a church
should be about again there's no reason
to be doubtful or discouraged we have
the money what do I mean by that well
let's just take a look here's how I know
we've got the money uh potential givers
in 2025 we have roughly 200 family units
okay uh and we've had roughly 140 family
units and roughly 60 single family units
and if you take a look at what we did
last year which was
$1,222 71 with the average giving last
year per week instead of the 16,300 as
you see you might go oh what are we
doing so what we you can easily do the
math it comes down to the family units
average give $75 a week that's the
average family you say well we don't
give that much or we give more than that
well that's an average you understand
that and then the single people they
average about $30 a week well I don't
give that or some give more than that
that's okay that's the way it works
potential average givers in 2025 though
if we really looked at the economy of
our area and I know groceries have gone
out of sight I know that they're like
double or triple I know things are
costing more and don't want anybody to
hurt themselves that's not the goal here
but if you recognize that the average
income of a family around here is
$91,400 if you just do a little homework
you take away Social Security what you
spend on that which is you pay half of
yours I have to pay all of mine but you
pay half of yours and then you take away
the fact that your taxes CU that's
really not income that's like the price
of doing business just like any business
out here has a price of doing business
if he's got to buy a truck to run that
that isn't really his income it is just
a price of doing business so your Social
Security and your taxes are price of
doing business the remainder of that
though is your discretionary funds you
don't have any many discretionary funds
until you get to that point those have
to go to the government and you can't do
anything about it but after that if you
base it on those figures a family unit
should be giving roughly $126 in our
area now listen to me everybody in this
that's family unit can't do this on the
other hand you need to be aware the
average family unit in our congregation
ought to be giving roughly $126 a week
and the average single person in our
congregation the average not that there
be some people could never do this other
people that could do way more than this
but the average should be $57 a week
that should be the average if we were
true to giving 10% of what's left after
Social Security and taxes that's a tie
that's the giving attemp if we were true
to that concept then we would be giving
$2,068 already right now that's where
our contribution would be if we were
committed to that now you say well
there's always fluctuations absolutely
so that might not ever actually happen
but at least it is the potential of what
could be so that would mean that every
family unit that's giving $75 might need
to think about could they reach
$126 a week and it would mean every
single person giving them roughly $30 a
week could they really reach $57 a week
if we did that we'd be at 26,000 Not
only would we make our budget but we
would be $4,000 a week over over our
budget what I'm trying to say is don't
really need to panic about oh we're not
where we ought to be all like that
listen to be very clearly you don't need
to panic we have the money it's a case
of will we give the money you said well
we can't do that I understand you said
that about blah blah blah blah but we
aren't in a position to do that I
understand that too you probably over
indebted
yourself and it's difficult to get there
but you to understand what the basic
concept really is in the scriptures and
you ought to shoot for it amen you don't
know not today maybe not tomorrow but
you need to prayerfully think about it
and shoot for it that's all you do you
can't nobody's perfect nobody here is
perfect nobody here gives perfectly okay
but you got to have something to shoot
for and that means there's no reason to
doubt or be discouraged God will provide
and we'll have the money we need Tony
compo I'll end with this story Tony
compo
uh he's kind of an odd sort of fell but
he was uh uh preaching at a lady's get
together it's an organization of a bunch
of ladies 300 ladies and they invited
him to speak at this lady's Retreat like
thing and it was a religious lady's
thing and there was a president of
whatever this is group was and it was a
lady and uh she had organized the whole
thing and uh they had a letter she she
got up in front of the crowd just before
Tony was supposed to
speak and she read this letter from a
missionary and the missionary uh told of
a uh an emergency situation that they
really needed the help and they were
requesting
$4,000 be sent for the Emergency I don't
know what the emergency was Tony didn't
tell what the emergency was but there's
some emergency and it really needed to
be done right away and so the president
that lady said to Tony when you get up
to speak would you lead us in a prayer
uh so that that $4,000 would be met Tony
said
no she laughs says now maybe didn't
understand I just ask you to lead a
prayer for that he said well you lead a
prayer for that
no uh you're kidding right no I won't
lead that
prayer you won't lead that prayer
no he said that's not what we should
do it's
$4,000 if it's really the emergency you
just
said whatever money we got in our pocket
we were to pull it out right now and put
it on the table right here said I'll
pull out everything out of my Billo
right now if it's really got if it's
really an emergency we don't need to
pray that God would send somebody we're
already here we already got the money I
got some money in my Billo I'll pull out
everything I've got I'll put it there
why I want you to do the
same that's how we ought to deal with an
emergency you just told us it's an
emergency let's pull it out let's deal
with the emergency right now and then we
just we don't have to pray about that so
he pulled out and he says I was feeling
pretty good because I knew I only had
$15 in my
Bello he pulled out his $15 he laid it
on the table in front of everybody and
then he looked at the President says
what you going to do and she reached in
and she had about 40 bucks in her bill
pulled it out and laid it on the table
and then everybody started passing by
and laying their money out and they had
well over
$44,000 if it's really important why
just do it do y'all remember the
shoes how many were here for the shoes
prise your in you're here for the
shoes and the rest of y'all we may have
to do that again anyway
so we gave all of our shoes away one
Sunday to the needy and nobody knew it
was going to happen but me and everybody
walked out
Barefoot because you had them with you
why not giving
them if you got it here's the
point the lesson that we all need to get
God supplies for our needs and he
supplied for that missionary and the
only problem was keeping it for
ourselves now we need to pray about it
because not everything should be done
like that we shouldn't just say well
we're going to go by a boat today no no
everything shouldn't be done like that
but occasionally you need to recognize
that really God does provide us with all
that we need as a
church and we just need to pull it out
when it's ready and do it as long as
it's w wise don't be foolish but at the
same time not be afraid so I don't know
what the budget will end up this year I
don't know what we'll end up spending I
don't know those things and neither to
you but I do believe in what we're
doing and if it really is valuable the
way it should be we all are a part of
that then we will pull out what we need
to pull out some will end up giving $126
a week some much more some much less
some will end up giving $57 a week just
a single person $57 a week some will end
up doing more than that some will do
less it is what God calls you to for
your tents make up your own mind but
here's the bottom line of all this is
what we're doing
worthy I believe it is we need to be a
part of all we can do to support it it's
your choice and so in the next few weeks
we're not going to you're going to think
we're going to talk nothing but about
money no today was about the budget
that's why I talk about money I don't
like talking about money y'all know me
you know I don't so we're not going to
just be talking about money money money
money but uh we do need to pay attention
to what we could do and we need to be a
prayerful about it so I'm asking you to
pray about it take a look at what you
can do and pray about it that's what I'm
doing that's what I encourage you to do
