you
and your
family and your
efforts and your
work and your
contributions make you important to all
of
us as a
congregation two men were stranded on a
desert
island one man was pacing back and forth
and just worried and
scared while the other one sat back and
relaxed underneath the tree was
absolutely calm and enjoying the
weather and the man who was worried said
aren't you afraid that we will die here
on this desert
island the other man says nope not at
all well why not he said well I make
$100,000 a
week and and I tithe 10% Faithfully of
my salary to my church I have no doubt
my preacher will find
me preachers have
taught and taught and taught and taught
on this subject I've taught on this
subject and I want to tell you that it
is important that you have a head
knowledge of this subject you do Mark is
a great one Mark chap 10 11 and 12 great
place to get some real head knowledge
John arbano I don't probably you
probably don't know who he is I've been
a fan of his since I was probably 15 but
he's gone on now I believe but uh he had
seven Commandments of stewardship and
those of them up there you can read them
for yourself your riches can be a curse
and not always a blessing that's found
in Mark 10 23-27 you can not outgive God
that's Mark 10 28-30 uh you are expected
to multiply God expects that these are
biblical truths if you steal from God
it's serious business so if you keep
back part it's not safe you can lose
your stewardship that's taught um you
are to pay obligations to God just as
you're to pay your taxes that's taught
and your greatest blessing comes from
getting giving anyway even when it hurts
that's when you really feel the
blessing but that's just head
knowledge uh B then goes on to tell why
he understands that giving isn't really
a owledge
thing he said he was at home he's a
preacher now he's at home studying at
home one
day and all of a sudden his daughter
comes in his daughter's name was Melody
she was 5 years old at the time and she
says uh dad I want a dollhouse would you
be willing to make me a
dollhouse and his dad said sure yeah
I'll do that for you promised to build
her dog dollhouse and she ran
out then he glanced out his steady
window and he saw his little daughter
Melody uh with her arms filled with
dishes with toys with dolls and she made
a trip she came back in made another
trip came back in and she just keep
doing she was piling up a pile out in
the yard finally he asked his wife
what's melody
doing and his wife said oh you promise
to build her a dollhouse and she
believes you she's just getting ready
for
it and that hit him like a truck hit him
he threw aside the book that he had been
reading he thought was so important he
just chucked it
aside quickly ran to a lumber
yard came back started building her a
dollhouse somebody asked him well why
did you do that so quickly he
said you may think it's because I wanted
to
no because her daddy gave his word and
she believed
it and nothing could keep him from
that what he discovered is giving is not
a head
thing it's a heart thing and if you're
only in the head space when it comes to
the subject of giving and it's what
you've been taught and you think you
know the inside and out on giving no
that's not giving giving is a heart
thing that text we read earlier clearly
teaches that we'll come back to that in
a moment but now stewardship and giving
is more than a head thing it is a heart
thing and over and over again we have
examples of this in the world we live in
Time Magazine wrote this there is a
positive association between helping
others and life expectancy helping
others reduces stress Studies have shown
that older people who are generous tend
to have better health so if you're not
in good health think about that the
heart math Institute stated when you are
altruistic lending a helping hand your
oxytocin levels go up which helps
relieve your stress so it's a real thing
it really does make you live longer it's
not a joke it's not something a preacher
says but this is still just head
knowledge the ascent said generous
people were almost three times as likely
to report being happy every day than
less generous people the gallop whole of
136 countries said this people who
donate to charity in the past month
reported greater satisfaction with life
this relationship emerges in poor and
rich countries alike so it is true for
us all it affects us when our hearts
engaged and we give it affects our heart
in a positive way my brother you don't
know him my brother if you saw him you
say he looks lot like you he's just a
lot older anyway say that because I like
to say that my brother used to sell cars
he didn't to sell cars he sold cars for
I don't know 30 years at
least and without doubt every month he
was the most successful car salesman on
the line he never missed
it and he told me something about
selling cars he told me several things
about selling cars and I'm not going to
get into all of it but let me just give
you wi he said people don't buy cars
because they need
them it's a heart decision you walk in
there and you feel it you just feel it
said they get a smell
fart and it get a it makes them feel
good whatever it's a heart thing it's
not a money thing if you're buying a car
for you because it's a money thing then
your heart's not in it but that's okay
you'll enjoy the car just the say but
that's the way way we do it most of the
things that we do that really matter to
us in a strange way comes from deep down
within it's a hard thing and this text
that we're look that we just read a
moment
ago is connected to the New Testament in
a way I don't know if you've seen it
before what we're going to do is I want
to walk you through and I want you
because some people seem to think the
Old Testament system of giving was
different from the New Testament and
they like to think that because then
maybe they're not as obligated to give
right it'd be a lot easier if I just
give what I want now they they had a
percentage they had to give and I can
just do whatever I
want I want to challenge you on that
because the truth is is that both are
about the
heart that's what it's about so I'm
going to walk you through I don't you
see how the heart is connected to giving
both in the Old Testament and the New
Testament so if your heart's not in your
giving and you're just doing it as a
number thing and you're just doing as a
math thing you're not where you need to
be
yet number one stewardship is giving
from a kindful heart and yes that is a
word I didn't think it was a word but it
is a word about that it's an interesting
word kindful you know what it means it
means to be full of kindness it is a
real word let's read the scriptures
together Old Testament if there's among
you a poor man of your brethren with in
any of the gates in your land which the
Lord your God is giving you you shall
not listen to this not Harden your
heart or shut your hand from your poor
brother you see immediately giving is
only done right when our heart's not
hard but when it's kind 1 John 3:1 17
New Testament but whoever has this
world's goods and sees his brother in
need and shuts up his heart heart from
him how does the love of God abide in
him it's a heart thing number
two stewardship is giving from a helpful
heart not just a kind heart but a heart
that wants to help Deuteronomy 158 but
you shall open your hand wide to him and
willingly lend him sufficient for his
need
whatever he needs wants to help
Galatians 2:10 New Testament they
desired only that we should remember the
poor the very thing which I also was
eager to do I just want to help I want
to do
it number three stewardship is given
from a merciful heart Deuteronomy again
the Old Testament what did the law teach
beware lest there be a wicked thought in
your heart you can have a wicked thought
in your heart about giving yes saying
the seventh year he's talking about
forgiving people's debt every seven
years the seventh year the year of
release is at hand and your eye be evil
against your brother that's when you
look down on a poor person or someone
who doesn't have what you have doesn't
have the education you have don't have
the things you have and you think you're
better than them and you look down on
them that's evil eye and it makes your
whole soul
evil you hear me that's what Jesus
teaches Matthew chapter 6 it means your
your soul is full of darkness when you
do
that that's
deadly that's
deadly that'll destroy you but listen
now and your eye be evil against your
poor brother and give him nothing and he
cry out to the Lord against you and it
becomes sin he comes said could you loan
me
no New Testament Matthew
20:15 is it not lawful for me to do what
I wish with my own things or is your eye
evil because I'm good you remember the
guys lined up early in the morning went
to work for him promised him a daer guy
about 11:00 at the morning promised him
a daera about 12:00 promised him a daera
2:00 in the afternoon going to give you
a daera at the end of the day 3:00 in
the afternoon going to give you a daera
at the end of the day 5:00 in the
afternoon just before work stops just an
hour I'm going to give you a daera at
the end of the day gives them all the
same amount of money and the ones that
came first and worked all day long says
it's not right listen to what the master
says is your I evil because I'm good are
you mad because I was kind to these
people are you mad
because I was kind in Matthew 6:23 it
says if thine eye be evil thy whole body
shall be full of Darkness I just wanted
to read that just in case you thought I
was kidding a minute
ago it's serious
business we need to have a merciful
heart stewardship is giving from a
cheerful heart if you're not getting
this this is all about your heart are
you listening to me this is not about
giving today this is about a heart
you think I'm preaching about giving I'm
not preaching about giving I'm preaching
about your heart you need to have a kind
heart a helpful heart a merciful heart
and then stewardship is giving from a
cheerful heart you need to have a
cheerful heart Old Testament Deuteronomy
15 ver10 still in that text that was
read a moment ago you shall surely give
to him and your heart shall not be
grieved when you give to him because for
this thing the Lord Lord your God will
bless you in all your works and in all
to which you put your hand maybe you're
not doing as well as you should because
you've been grieved when you did
give you following
it you were grieved about I did it I
don't want to give
that might should have kept it because
it would didn't do you any good
anyway New Testament 2 Corinthians 9:7
so let each one give as he purposes in
his
heart not
grudgingly or of necessity while I just
have to for God loves a cheerful giver
why does God love a cheerful Giver
because God is a cheerful
Giver that's why he loves that so a
cheerful heart some folks walk around
like good all the time find something
wrong with everything that's going on
and so whenever the church does
something I'll find something wrong with
that
you know folks if you're like that it's
kind of hard not find something wrong
with
you number
next stewardship is given from a hopeful
heart what do I mean by that look at
verse 11 this is what Jesus quotes by
the way in the New Testament when he
says it this is the text he's referring
to for the poor will never cease you
remember him saying something something
like that the poor will never cease from
the
land now listen to
me that may not mean what you think it
means that a poor person that's a poor
person will always be a poor person
that's not what he says what he's saying
is there will always be poor
people that will never go away one of
the reasons is because you need to learn
how to be
kind poor will never cease from the land
therefore I command you saying you shall
open your hand to your brother to your
poor and your needy in your land why
would you do that if they're always
going to be poor because you are hopeful
that that one won't stay
poor Mark chap
14: 6-9 I'll just read verse 7 it says
for you have the poor with you always
this is Jesus and wherever you wish you
may do them good so you do do them good
you do help you can help but me you do
not have always I'm not always going to
be here you could do something nice for
me I'm G to go soon when you loved have
had a chance to do something nice for
Jesus you do because when you do it to
the least of these my brothers you do it
to
me you do hopeful heart that might
actually make a
difference number
six stewardship is giving from a
bountiful heart we all need to have a
bountiful heart the Old Testament
Deuteronomy 15: 12-14 if your brother a
Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman is sold to
you obviously in terrible debt sold to
you and serves you six years then in the
seventh year you shall let him go free
from
you don't keep your brother in debt
Always by the way if you loan something
to
somebody and he's a brother or sister
here at some point you got to let him go
some
point can't keep that over his head
forever and sometimes you they pay it
off and you still had let it go you got
to let it go sometime verse 13 and when
we send him away free from you you shall
not let him go away empty-handed so wait
a second he owed you money and he
finally paid it off and he's going free
but you aren't to let him go free you're
supposed to give you something now this
is guy who owed you money that's right
and then you're going to help him even
more that's right that's like uh he's
getting the interest that's right cuz he
helped you cuz he helped you too you
shall supply him liberally in verse 14
you shall supply him liberally from your
flock you mean give you some of my
animals I'm going to give you some of my
animals from your threshing for I'm not
going to give you some of the food that
we're raising here for my family and
from your wine press I'm not going to
give you some of the wine we're not
going to do that from what the Lord has
blessed you with you you shall give to
him Bountiful heart does is it does he
deserve the Bounty absolutely
not
no New Testament 2 Corinthians 9 verse
61 but this I say he who
SWS sparingly that is helps or does good
or gives or gives to the church he who
so sparingly will All Shall reap
sparingly by the way that's in the Bible
so you do get blessed when you
give and he who SWS bountifully will
also reap bountifully I want to reap
bountifully don't you I want to reap
bountifully while you are enriched in
every way for all liberality verse 11
says so I'm just suggesting to you it's
not about the amount it's not about the
numbers it's not about the facts it's
not about the figures it's about the
Bountiful heart
number next stewardship is given giving
from a grateful heart look at verse 15
Deuteronomy this is the Old Testament
teaching you shall remember that you
were a slave in the land of Egypt by the
way and just about every one of us have
ancestors who were slaves if you know
anything about Roman history just about
everybody in fact over 60% of the
population of the city of Rome itself
was slaves they just didn't allow them
wear clothing that represented slavery
because if they did they knew there'd be
more than them and they'd beat them up
and take everything they had so you
couldn't wear special clothing you
should remember that that's R you get
czechoslavakia
right it's where all the slaves ended up
going is up a little bit north of when
they
rebelled you should remember that you
were a slave in the land of Egypt and
the Lord your God redeemed you
don't forget
that therefore I command you this thing
today hey I'm not a slave today are you
been redeemed amen you need to remember
that why do you need to remember that
well it changes your attitude you learn
to be grateful you forget what go people
have done for you you forget what God
has done for you and you get mean and
grubby with all the stuff you have you
have you forgotten that you barely made
ends meat when you first got married
have you forgotten have you forgotten
how hard it's
been Romans
15:27 it pleased them indeed and they
are their debtors for if the Gentiles
have been partakers of their spiritual
things by the
way their duty is also to minister to
them in material things the very fact
that the Jews listen to me on this you
may not like this the very fact that the
Jews paid the way we actually owe them a
little a little
bit maybe quit talking bad about Jews
amen without them we wouldn't
be whatever you think of them
today so this is the
lesson stewardship is giving but
stewardship is giving from the heart a
kindful heart a helpful heart a merciful
heart a cheerful heart a hopeful heart a
bountiful heart Heart A Grateful
heart see giving is the theme of the Old
Testament from the heart giving is the
theme of the New Testament from the
heart and I'm going to tell you
something after this life is over and by
the way it's coming quick after this
life is over and you're standing or
kneeling in the presence of the Lord God
I think we're going to be heart
sore
why after this life is over I'm thinking
of me now maybe not
you I think I'm going to wish I had done
more I'm answering for what I did or did
not do what do you
think I think I'm going to be thinking
man I wish I'd have done that
I wish my heart had been in
that I wish I'd helped
that why didn't
I speak
to I'm going to recommend a film that I
don't want your kids to go
see okay I don't think it's a good kid
movie in fact I'm not even sure every
adult here should see
it it's not that kind of movie it's from
a few years ago Schindler's
List it it's based upon a true
story of a German industrialist named
Oscar
Schindler this really
happened Oscar Schindler was a rich man
at the beginning of the
war then he learned of what was
happening to the Jews who were being
taken on trains to alitz he learned that
during the war so he wasn't really doing
this at the be beginning he wasn't
always a
giver Shindler found out what was
happening to all the Jews at alwiz and
he began to
systematically try to save as many Jews
as he could and the way he did it is he
had a factory he he built things and he
built he built armaments he built War
stuff he was wealthy that wasn't all he
did but but he built a lot of things so
what he did is he approached the German
command and he offered money to get the
Jews who are going to be killed anyway
to come and work in his Factory for free
and they would be a part of the military
machine and it all sounds like too good
to be true to the Germans who want this
to turn the way it was happening and so
by buying the Jews back from that he
could deliberately and they did
sabotage much of the ammunition even
that were produced by the factory not
all of it otherwise they'd not have
gotten away with
it but he went from wealthy to basically
bankrupt by the end of the war because
he spent all of his
money buying Jews out to save their life
to keep them from being
killed the end of the war there's a
there's a little part of the movie and
this is the part of the movie call your
attention
to it's at midnight the Germans have
surrendered Shindler met some of his
workers at midnight because he set them
all free they could
go it's an emotional scene Shindler
saying goodbye to his Financial Manager
who's one of the key actors in the movie
who had handled the plant for him a good
and trusted Friend by that point they
embraced and Shindler sing
I could have done more he
says he looks at his car he says why did
I save
this I could have bought 10
Jews with
this he looked at a few things he had in
the office he says this would have saved
another why didn't I do more
if we give from the
heart our giving will even surprise us
and what it will really surprises is
what it does to
us why we need to learn
this the heart change that
happens what a great surprise we'll
have seeing our
change because we get
allow your heart to lead you in your
giving don't allow your numbers don't
allow your intelligence if you allow
your intelligence if you allow your
numbers if you allow that to be the
whole and only thing that matters here
it will not change you and you might
even be more proud than ever oh we've
got some good
givers that really would be better
almost if they quit giving
because it's not from the heart and
until it starts coming from here like
everything else we are supposedly doing
in worship you see we think it's all
about how great thou art it's got to be
so
beautiful away with
that we think that it's all about the
sound about the beauty we think it's all
about how well worded he did the Lord's
Supper how wonderful the giving guy did
how much that was so interesting that
little story Rex's told at the end of
the sermon away with that what matters
is whether or not when you come here God
is touching your heart and you're
letting it happen if you're not
attaching to God when you're here you're
wasting your time this is not affecting
you it only affects you when it begins
to hit the
heart so when you
give give from the heart
you'll change
yourself that's another way of changing
the
world think about it especially next
week
