you know the last time I preached a
sermon was several years ago and it was
in the old building and it was a Sunday
evening uh and it was my first time
preaching and I was really uh nervous
and overly prepared and I preached a
little long and some of you let me know
that I was preaching too long by the
looks on your faces and I don't want to
see those looks again so I'm going to
get you out of here on time
so this Deuteronomy passage uh is not
one that we read too often in church but
it's a passage that the atheists and the
skeptics love to read and focus on and
they do that so that they can accuse God
and the Bible of having conflicting
principles and so we're going to look at
four quick points that address some of
these so-called
contradictions but before we get into
the lesson let's go to our God in prayer
dear father in heaven dear Lord we honor
you and praise you Father lord we thank
you for all your many blessings we thank
you for an opportunity to come and
worship you once again and to study a
portion of your word father we pray that
you would bless us in this study and
bless us always to be ready to contend
earnestly for the faith and it's in
Jesus name that we pray amen
so so when we look at this Deuteronomy
passage and others like it the skeptics
love to say that they are contradictions
in God's
standards let's read it again but of the
cities of these peoples which the Lord
your God gives you as an inheritance you
shall let nothing that breathes remain
alive but you shall utterly destroy them
the Hittite and the Amorite and the
Canaanite and the Perizzite and the
Hivite and the Jebusite just as the Lord
your God has commanded you and so
they'll say "How can you serve a God
that would wipe out an entire nation of
people how can a god like that be all
good and they will go as far as to say
that your god is a monster for killing
those poor
Canaanites and so first of all in making
a statement like that the skeptic
doesn't recognize his own
hypocrisy they believe that morality is
subjective right so whatever you believe
is right and wrong is right and wrong to
you so if you think it's right to lie
and cheat and steal then it's okay to do
in your
world and they apply that thinking to
everybody but
God they want to judge God and say that
God does wrong and say that God is
immoral
that's kind of strange strange way of
thinking but we'll just ignore that
glaring hypocrisy and address their
claim that God is a monster for killing
those poor innocent
Canaanites so let's take a closer look
at these um lovely
Canaanites starting in Leviticus
18:3 according to the doings of the land
of Egypt where you dwelt you shall not
do and according to the doings of the
land of Canaan where I'm bringing you
you shall not do nor shall you walk in
their ordinances so what were they doing
verse six none of you shall approach
anyone who is near of kin to him to
uncover his nakedness i am the Lord
so keeping this as G-rated as possible
in verses 7- 20 the Bible describes how
people in the same family were having
inappropriate relationships with one
another parents and
kids grandparents and grandkids
yeah verse 21 and you shall not let any
of your descendants pass through the
fire to Molech nor shall you profane the
name of your God I am the Lord." So they
were murdering their kids by burning
them as sacrifices to false
gods these poor innocent
Canaanites verse 22 you shall not lie
with a male as with a woman it is an
abomination we know how God feels about
homosexuality
nor shall you mate with an
animal so I'm going to stop right there
i think we get the picture about these
people they were real real
sick verse 24 do not defile yourselves
with any of these things for by all
these the nations are defiled which I'm
casting out before you so we should
challenge the
skeptic you think God did something
wrong for judging these people are you
sure these are the people you want to go
to bat for and say that God did them
wrong you might want to rethink that Mr
skeptic you see God is not a monster god
judged the
monsters the skeptic will say "Well what
about the kids the kids were innocent
they didn't do anything to deserve
that." We can address that
deuteronomyap 10:14 indeed heaven and
the highest heavens belong to the Lord
your God also the earth with all that is
in it job 1:21 and he said "Naked I came
from my mother's womb and naked shall I
return the Lord gave and the Lord is
taken away blessed be the name of the
Lord." Everything belongs to God every
life belongs to God whether we have the
total understanding or not everything
that God does is right and God has the
right to do everything that he
does and even though his judgment
included those kids the Lord is still
good the Bible says in Romans 8:18 "For
I consider that the sufferings of this
present time are not worthy to be
compared with the glory which shall be
revealed in us."
When God took David's newborn child
David said "He can't come to me but I
will go to
him." Because of that we know that those
Canaanite kids are in the presence of
the Almighty
God you think they're worried about what
happened to them on this
earth bear with me for a second if they
could speak to the skeptics from heaven
I believe they would tell them that they
should be quiet and stop blaspheming God
on their behalf they would say "Don't
worry about what happened to us we're
just fine but you're not you need to
repent." I think they would have a
message for us too i think they would
say "I know what you're going through i
know that life is tough suffering is
tough
but man wait until you see what God has
waiting for you in heaven you're going
to wish you would never complain a day
in your
life our suffering can't compare to our
salvation our God is good and his
standard is the standard so there can be
no
contradiction number
two the skeptic will claim that there is
a contradiction in God's slavery
so they love this topic they think it's
an openandsh shut case they'll say "How
can you believe in a God and a Bible
that condones
slavery how can a good God be okay with
slavery?" And they'll double down when
they're talking to me and say "How can
you as a black man be a Christian and
believe in this Bible considering what
happened to your ancestors in this
country?"
when they say these things obviously
they're making the accusation that the
slavery in the Bible is the same slavery
that happened in this
country and I really had no idea that
that sentiment was out there and so I
made it my mission to be able to
effectively respond to that and after a
lot of study I know for sure that they
couldn't be more
wrong and this is their favorite passage
that they like to use to try to make
that point
levitic Leviticus
25:44 and as for your male and female
slaves whom you may have from the
nations that are around you from them
you may buy male and female
slaves now on the surface that sounds
kind of bad but when we come across
passages that seem a little troubling
don't doubt dig in because when you dig
in you will discover the righteousness
of God so let's dig in let's look at the
verses that the skeptics leave out the
verses that bring clarity and the proper
understanding and so when I'm talking to
atheists about this topic this is what I
lead
with in both the New Well both the Old
and the New Testament the Bible
explicitly condemns slave trading
exodus
21:16 "He who kidnaps a man and sells
him or if he is found in his hand shall
surely be put to death." So if you
kidnap someone and sell him into slavery
God says death penalty for you if you're
the one that buys that kidnapped person
and enslaves them death penalty for you
too so that verse alone destroys any
notion that the slavery in the Bible is
the same slavery that happened in this
country
but there's more evidence 1 Timothy 1:es
9 and 10 knowing this that the law is
made not for a righteous person but for
the lawless and insubordinate for the
ungodly and for sinners for the unholy
and profane for murderers of fathers and
murderers of mothers for mansllayers for
fornicators for sodomites for kidnappers
for liars for perjurers and if there is
any other thing that is contrary to
sound
doctrine in the ESV and NIV kidnappers
in verse 10 is translated as enslavers
and slave traders and those are the more
accurate translations because in the
theers's Greek lexicon that Greek word
is translate is defined as one who
unjustly reduces free men to slavery so
the Bible is crystal clear slave trading
is
condemned so what's happening in
Leviticus chapter
25:44 where it says you may buy male and
female slaves
Well let's look at verse 47 because it
gives us the context now if a sojourer
or stranger close to you becomes rich
and one of your brethren who dwells by
him becomes poor and sells himself to
the stranger or sojourer close to you or
to a member of the stranger's family
there's the
context in verse 44 the Hebrews were
buying people who were raising their
hand and saying "I'm available i need
work i'm desperate i need to provide for
my family i need to pay off some debts
i'm willing to submit myself to you and
serve you let's come to an agreement for
hire." In verse 47 the Hebrews could do
the same thing that could sell
themselves their services their skills
for financial reasons it wasn't about
race it wasn't about dominance it was
strictly about
economics and I imagine that a man would
agree to this long term as a way of
making sure that not only his immediate
family was provided for but his future
generations as well
and so even though it did involve
generations of slavery and servitude
it's totally different from child
slavery this was by
agreement and sure it was a little more
involved than what we've covered and
there were certainly abuses of the
system which came with
punishment but the abuse is not an
indictment of God that's not what God
intended here's how God expected the
relationship to look
exodus 21:es 5 and 6 but if the servant
plainly says "I love my master my wife
and my children I will not go out free."
Then his master shall bring him to the
judges he shall also bring him to the
door or to the doorpost and his master
shall pierce his ear with an all and he
shall serve him forever it was to be a
mutually beneficial relationship and as
is everything that is of God it was to
be rooted in
love no one was to be taken advantage of
or
mistreated and that's a message for us
as
well how does God feel about the members
of his church when we mistreat each
other when we disrespect one another and
act ugly to one another and lie to one
another think about it
so that's the intended slavery of the
Bible i've listed uh a lot more verses
there that you see uh that reveal other
aspects of this slavery for instance we
see in Genesis 15:es 2 and 3 if a man
did not have children then his slave or
servant would inherit his entire fortune
these verses clearly show that the
slavery in the Bible is not the slavery
that we think of
today
number next I always wanted to say that
Rex the skeptic claims that there is a
contradiction in God's
sacrifice there's so many false claims
about
Jesus a lot of people think that he
didn't even exist even though secular
scholars wrote about him
there's a very popular atheist atheist
on Tik Tok who claims that Jesus did not
fulfill one messianic prophecy can you
believe that but all he does to make his
point is twist
scripture there are many others who say
that there are conflicting scriptures
about the sacrificial day that Jesus was
crucified and here's why they say that
mark 15:42 this is after Jesus had been
crucified now when evening had come
because it was the preparation day that
is the day before the Sabbath and then
John
19:14 now it was the preparation day of
the Passover and about the sixth hour
and he said to the Jews behold your king
so Mark says that he was crucified on
the day of preparation and they claim
that John says that he was crucified on
a separate day the day of preparation of
the
Passover that's a contradiction they say
well let's take a closer
look in the Old Testament there's only
one preparation day which is synonymous
with Friday the day before the Sabbath
and so what was happening at that time
the Passover was taking place
so John was simply saying that Jesus
Jesus was crucified on the day of
preparation during Passover or while
Passover was taking place it was still
Friday john was not indicating that it
was a separate day he was just
describing the same day a little
differently that's all so there's no
contradiction there all it takes is just
a little bit of Bible study
then they'll say "Well there's
conflicting scripture about the
sacrificial
hour." They'll say "You guys don't even
know the time that Jesus was crucified."
And here's why they say
that mark 15:25 "Now it was the third
hour and they crucified him." So in
Jewish time the third hour would be 9:00
a.m our time
john
19:14-16 now it was the preparation day
of the Passover and about the sixth hour
and he said to the Jews "Behold your
king." Then he delivered him to be to
them to be crucified so they took Jesus
and led him away so in Jewish time the
sixth hour would be noon our
time so they'll say it's real simple
Christian the third hour is not the
sixth hour 9:00 a.m is not noon they
don't match up the gospels are off by
three hours that's a contradiction
gotcha well let's take a take a closer
look and add
context john
19:42 so there they laid Jesus because
of the Jews preparation day for the tomb
was nearby
it's obvious that John was talking to
Gentiles because he would not to have he
would not have to tell Jews that the day
of preparation was a Jewish day right
and so if John is talking to Gentiles it
makes sense that he would not use Jewish
time but he would use Gentile time and
that would have been Roman civil time
roman civil time is just like our time
and so when John says that Jesus was
delivered over to be crucified at the
6th hour that would have been 6:00 a.m
so with that understanding everything
lines up
perfectly john is saying the crucifixion
process started at 6:00 a.m then they
mocked Jesus and abused him and put the
crown of thorns on him and he had to
take the trip to Calvary and then at
that point Mark reports 3 hours later
after that Jesus was crucified at 9:00
a.m so once again when we dig in there
is no
contradiction and again all it takes is
just a little bit of Bible
study and the last point number four the
one you've been waiting for the skeptic
will say that there is a contradiction
in God's science
so when talking to skeptics they're
eventually going to get to the point
where they say "I believe in science i
believe in evolution evolution is a fact
that's why I can't believe in the
Bible." And something that I just
recently learned I didn't realize this
is that there are a lot of Christians
who believe that evolution is true i had
no
idea they think somehow that evolution
harmonizes with creation
that blows me
away maybe I can change their mind now
don't get me wrong i believe in science
i just don't believe everything that
scientists
say i believe in real science that which
is observable testable and
repeatable now here's why I don't
believe everything that scientists say
you know all the different evolutionary
charts that we see in the
textbooks that uh supposedly show how
the species
evolved you know all those charts are
just made up
right yeah they're just made up they're
not based on fact or fossils or science
they're based on their
imagination and don't just take my word
for it
take the word of the scientist who've
admitted that lies have been
told ernest Hackle I believe that's how
you pronounce it living at the turn of
the 19th century asserted that embryos
in their development in the womb repeat
the evolutionary history of their
species
though his idea quickly became embedded
in evolution friendly textbooks his
claims were not only found to be
inaccurate but eventually found to be a
hoax upon confirmation Hackle eventually
acknowledged that several of the charts
he used to promote his theory were
fabricated to support his theory he said
here's the kicker i should feel utterly
condemned and and annihilated by the
admission were it not that hundreds of
the best observers and biologists lie
under the same
charge the great majority of all
morphological anatomical hyological and
embryological that's a lot of logicals
the great majority of those diagrams are
not true to nature but are more or less
doctorred schematized and
reconstructed so old Ernest was
basically saying "Yeah I lied about it
but I don't feel bad about it because
almost everybody else lied about their
charts
too." Wow what an
admission and this is just one example
there are more admissions by scientists
of
lime so this chart supposedly shows how
horses evolved right supposedly from a
little fox-like creature to what we see
today
okay here's another
admission about this chart i'll just
summarize
it leaning paleontologists have
acknowledged that this never happened in
nature
they just made it
up they just
lied now contrast that with
scripture hebrews 6:18 that by two
immutable things in which it is
impossible for God to lie romans 3 and4
let God be true and every man a liar
so where the Bible and evolution
disagree and I'm about to show you that
they do
disagree who you going to
believe the Bible says in Genesis 1:24
"Then God said let the earth bring forth
the living creature according to its
kind cattle and creeping thing and beast
of the earth each according to its
kind." And it was so so each animal was
made after its own kind no mixing or
merging of species
happened genesis 2 and one thus the
heavens and the earth and all the host
of them were
finished so when God was done creating
every animal after its own kind he said
"It's finished it's done no more
creating is happening it's over." He
brought it to an
end that's what that Hebrew word means
scientists say creation is still
happening through
evolution who you going to
believe and just in case you didn't
catch it this explains the first law of
thermodynamics that energy can neither
be created nor destroyed we see
reproduction today but we see no new
creation or new species why because God
is the only creator and he said long ago
I'm done
creating and that's why that's why the
first law of thermodynamics makes
sense the second law of thermodynamics
is in the
Bible the second law basically says that
everything is wearing down everything is
wearing out just keep living just keep
looking in the mirror you'll see that in
effect that was supposed to be a joke
and get that i thought it was kind of
funny when I wrote it
um almost uh 3,000 years before we knew
that that was a universal principle God
was talking about it psalm 102:es 25 and
26 of old you founded the earth and the
heavens are the work of your hands even
they will perish but you endure all of
them will wear out like a garment
there's your science
here's another one matthew
19:14 and he answered and said "Have you
not read that he who created them from
the beginning made them male and
female?" It's estimated that there are
some 9 million life forms on Earth but
some estimates put it at trillions so
basically we have no idea right so I'll
say 9 million to 9 trillion for the
purposes of this uh this point
so if you believe in ev
evolution you're telling me that for
every life form all 9 mill 9 trillion
that require a male and a female to
reproduce that somehow randomly the male
and female evolved at the same time
because you got to have them both right
and not only that but they randomly
evolved in every case non-meal
non-trivial with complimentary
reproductive
systems just by
chance that's what you're telling me
that's what you believe are you
okay are you okay that that that doesn't
sound like clear and rational
thinking but here's something you should
be thinking about you should be thinking
about repenting for holding to a belief
that dishonors our
God that's probably a good
idea of course we could talk about other
things uh that disprove evolution like
DNA and and so much more i could go on
another hour ripping evolution apart but
the point is made within the Bible
itself and I've listed more scriptures
uh for you to check
out the Bible does not contradict
science the Bible is evidence that God
created
science so there you have it that's the
lesson we've looked at and debunked the
accusations that there are
contradictions in God's standards in his
slavery in his sacrifice and in his
science listen if someone thinks that
there are contradictions in the Bible
they are either a lazy Bible student or
just dishonest or
both sure there are things we don't
understand but because I don't
understand it doesn't mean that the
Bible is somehow wrong or immoral or
contradicts and notice that with each
point that we covered the resolution is
really found in Jesus Christ you see we
all deserve God's wrath poured out on us
like he did the Canaanites because we've
all sinned and fallen short of the glory
of God but God poured out his wrath on
Jesus Christ in
ourstead there can be no better position
in life than being a slave to Christ
we're free from the bondage of sin and
there is no negativity associated with
it he was the perfect sacrifice and his
creation is witness to his glory if you
are not a member of the Lord's church
you are in conflict with God but the
resolution is in Jesus
Christ you can be reconciled to the
father by obeying his son's gospel
believe it repent of your sins confess
Jesus Christ as Lord and be baptized in
the watery grave and be faithful unto
death and you will experience eternal
life if you need to repent or you need
prayer however we can help why don't you
come as we stand and as we sing
