but I love this quote about
money workers earn it spin thrifts burn
it Bankers lend it women spend it
forgers fake it taxes take it Dy leaves
it airs receive it thrifties save it
misers crave it robbers sees it rich
increase it gamblers lose it I could use
it that money talks I'll not deny I
heard it once it said
goodbye two Alabama
boys probably somebody I knew were
visiting the holy land and they were at
the Sea of
Galilee and they wanted to cross the
other side and there was a a boat that
would take you to the other side of the
Sea of Galilee but the charge were $50
per person and these boys were not
wealthy they just barely were able to
get to the Holy Land and so one of them
cried out in protest you know Lakes back
home or some of the most beautiful lakes
in the world and you can cross them for
a dollar or
two but the guy replied oh but this is
the lake that Jesus walked on the
country boy sna back no wonder he walked
across with the prices like
this money's difficult at times it's
hard to pay for some of the stuff that
you want to pay for there was a strong
man who had a reputation of being so
strong and in front of the circus that
he worked in he would get an orange and
he would squeeze that orange until he
would say when he got through he's so
strong he squeeze all the juice out of
it and he would dare anybody in the
crowd wherever they traveled anybody in
the crowd if you could squeeze one more
drop out of that that orange you would
win $1,000 oh there's a lot of people
tried but nobody could do it nobody
could squeeze that orange and get one
more drop out of it until one day he was
in Brandon Florida and this fell walked
up and said can I try it after he had
squeezed out all the juice and this man
walked up grabbed that orange and
squeezed six more drops out of that
orange unbelievable the strong man was
shed I mean not even one he six more
drops and the man the strong man said I
can't believe it how did you do it he
says and who are you he says well I I'm
just a Treasurer down at the Creekside
Church of Christ we've had to do this a
lot all the time that's Marvin Phillips
sorry about lying about you brother
anyway
so we may think well it's my money and I
can do whatever I want to do do with my
money but if all things really belong to
God as we kind of studied recently maybe
that's a stewardship mistake Bruce B
talked about a movie set back in January
15th 1989 it was an article in the
Lexington Herald Leader about a family
living in a house in West Palm Beach
Florida yeah I'm talking about Florida
Today West Palm Beach Florida t uh there
was a film crew there they wanted to
film an episode you may remember this BL
Striker you probably don't that's back
crashing it was going to be pretty
violent but they wanted to do it in the
man's yard and the guy said sure you can
do it gave them full R go ahead do it
and so they did but you know it was
tearing the yard all to pieces and then
somebody called the owner of the house
because this family was only renting the
house they did not own the house and had
no right to give them that that
privilege kind of like
us like we think we own things and talk
like we own things when we really
don't kind of like that is it Psalm
50:12 The World Is Mine the Lord says
and all of its fullness nness doesn't
belong to
me nothing you have belongs to you
except in the sense that you're the
steward now now we studied if you recall
I'm taking a little time to get into
this in fact I I'm taking too much time
I probably should quit right now before
I preach the sermon but all right we
studied not long ago that sermon how to
handle my money did you know that that's
such an interesting subject to people
that over 14,000 people have watched it
online it's the large lest number of any
of our videos ever been watched online
there are people out there that want to
know how to handle their money from a
Biblical perspective so maybe you don't
so if you think I wish you wouldn't talk
about this 14,000 people thought it was
something they really wanted to know
about so maybe you do too so we're going
to look at it I don't know if you
remember what we talked about then was
if you really want to handle your money
right you take a monetary inventory take
a look at what your what your money's
doing uh track meticulously your
expenses and then try a monthly budget
that was all the advice we gave in that
lesson that was it we're going to look
at three more lessons this morning
biblical lessons we're going to walk
through it the best we can and see if we
can all learn something I certainly
needed to and I think these are lessons
straight from God number
one build up unnecessary savings with
discernment you need to build up I need
to build up unnecessary savings with
discernment interesting term unnecessary
savings but stay with me Proverbs 6 and
verse 8 the ant provides her supplies in
the summer in the summer why would he do
it in summer there's plenty of food in
the summer in the summer and gathers her
food in the Harvest proverbs 10 verse5
he who gathers in summer is a wise son
why do you harvest in the summer there's
plenty of food why would you store it up
he who sleeps in Harvest is a son who
causes shame Proverbs 24: 27 prep
prepare your outside work make it fit
for yourself in the field and afterward
build your house why would you need to
Mill the wood and get it ready and and
put it over there before you you're not
even using that board not for a long
time you're just starting building on
your house and yet you need to get it
ready before you use it Proverbs 30: 24
and 25 there are four things which are
little on the Earth but they are
exceedingly wise the ant are people not
WR strong yet they prepare their food in
the
summer what are unnecessary
savings why would you need unnecessary
savings you say well I sounds almost
opposite of what Jesus would teach no
it's what Jesus taught the Old Testament
is his teachings just like the New
Testament okay he is the word of God not
part of it he is the word of God and so
so what we need to learn is we need to
be wise and Discerning about
unnecessary savings because unnecessary
savings handle things that you need to
handle like the
unexpected like having a safety net like
having money for a rainy day like maybe
$1,000 in a savings account might save
you
$22,000 like having three three to six
months of savings just in case what will
happen to you will happen to me
illness job
loss right not a bad idea right but
that's not necessary not this moment
it's not just like Gathering food up in
the summer is not ready right this
moment just like cutting wood to build a
house that you've not started using
those boards not necessary right now but
it's going to be necessary and building
up an unnecessary savings is Discerning
because you need to avoid more debt and
if you don't have that you have to
borrow money to fix your car or put new
tires on it and we might have most of us
been there and it's not a good place to
be or maybe you have medical or dental
expenses that you don't have the money
for so you depend on insurance and it
never covers it all or job loss or home
repairs that you didn't expect because a
hurricane come across and took some of
your tiles off the roof of your house
might be a good idea to have a little
unnecessary money right it just might be
a good idea to avoid more stress in your
marriage do you know how many marriages
have ended over money because of the
stress do you know how many fusses and
fights have happened in people's home
over money because they didn't have it
when they actually it was necessary so
you need to save the money when it's
unnecessary to save it you following me
that's when you build it up as I and and
I might throw at you this alert
Discerning that you need it even for
seeking funds if you'd start saving it
with the idea that when you got through
you could buy a car there's an idea what
an
idea what an idea why do we have to go
into debt for everything because we're
in too big of a hurry to wait
look at me listen to me amen
walls why do you think Jesus Took up the
12
baskets why there were 12
Apostles they might be hungry
tomorrow how about
Thursday didn't eat it right then no
they were full they' just eatting
everybody was
full but might get hungry
later so the biblical way to handle my
money better is to build up unnecessary
savings with a little discernment number
two pay off unnecessary debts with
determination pay off unnecessary debts
with determination I'm not saying that
you never can borrow money that would be
ridiculous for me to say such a thing as
that or even teach such a thing because
I've never made that rule you can't buy
a house generally on
cash okay
just nobody probably going to wait that
long you generally don't wait until
you're 85 to buy a house wouldn't make
much sense now would it okay but let's
look at some scripture Proverbs 22:7 the
rich rules over the poor and the Bor a
servant to the lender let me tell you
what being in debt does it makes you a
slave Proverbs 22:26 do not be one of
those who shakes his hands in a pledge
one of those who is shy for debts and
you don't want to be the one that people
are barring
from it makes you a
slave what I'm the I'm the owner yeah
but if he don't pay you
back Leviticus 25: 39- 40 and if one of
your brethren who dwells by you this is
Brethren becomes poor I didn't think
Brethren would ever be poor you don't
know much about the world if you think
that that there's nobody here that's
really struggling you have Miss read
your congregation there are people in
this congregation that are struggling
right this
moment this moment in here right
now
struggling I'm glad you got it they
don't let me read on and if one of your
brethren who dwells by you becomes poor
and sells himself to you he becomes a
slave to you to pay off his debt now
that's not a that's not an evil form of
slavery it's just a bad form of slavery
you hear me when you go into debt on a
mortgage that's a bad form of slavery
but it's not an evil form because you
are enslaved to pay that off whether you
like to admit it or not you got to pay
it you don't have a choice about it you
try to choose otherwise they'll take the
house away from you you know this is
true and sells himself to you you shall
not compel him to serve as a slave so
you're you're not supposed to treat
people like that
so Jesus didn't by the way I don't know
if you've really studied the New
Testament I've studied a little bit and
I found out there's nothing in the New
Testament about Jesus approving of
slavery the way we think of it the only
form that you'll ever read about if you
read very closely is a hired servant go
back and reread your Bible closely
because I have there is nowhere in the
New Testament that Jesus said slavery as
we think about it was a good
thing stay with me but there is a form
of slavery and most of us are in it
because most of us owe
money let me finish
reading and a hired servant so he says
in verse 40 still in Leviticus 25 as a
hired servant and a Sojourner he shall
be with you and you He Shall Serve You
Until the Year of Jubilee so that's what
Jesus taught and stood by because he's
the word of God in 2 Kings chapter 4
verses 1 and verse 7 just reading it
would be good for you to read that whole
text but it says a certain woman of the
wives the sons of the prophets cried out
to Elisha saying your servant my husband
is dead and you know that your servant
feared the Lord and the Creditor is
coming to take my two sons to be a slave
it is not new that preachers are in
debt that's not a new
thing and in deep debt this guy was in
deep debt he is struggling to make it
and now that he can't
provide I've come to the Widow verse 7
then she said came and told the man of
God and he said go sell the oil and pay
your debt this is after a miracle and
you and your sons live on the rest so
they will not become slaves what are
unnecessary debts that we need to be
termined to pay off can I go a little
bit onto
this pay off with determination
unnecessary debt
faster quit being lazy about it put more
on it it than you need to quit paying
the
minimum get out of
debt even if it's just 50 cents more put
more on it get it done you need to get
out of it pay off with determination
unnecessary debt with these larger
payments you said well I
can't you can leave off a cup of coffee
you might c those things are five bucks
hour morning it's not Starbucks it's
five
bucks pay off with determination
unnecessary debts with more than once a
month payments they'll be shocked if
they get two checks but you send two
checks maybe pay it off early pay off
with determination unnecessary debts
that are the most expensive you got
something that's really beating you down
you'd be surprised how far your money
would go if you weren't so deep in
it be surprised what it be like if you
didn't know anybody imagine if all of a
sudden you didn't know anybody the
difference that would make in your
life pay off with determination
unnecessary debt start with the smallest
go the largest that's what Ed Ramsey
said I mean Dave Ramsey says he caused
The Snowball Effect I've done that I'm G
tell you something that works the reason
it works is because you start believing
you're going to get it
done to do it start with the largest pay
it off as quick as you can go the next
one use the money from that that pay
that one that actually works pay off
with determination unnecessary debt when
you're upside down on a Car Guys y'all
got to quit swapping cars are you
listening to me if you're one of those
who swap cars every time you turn around
and you always want to be driving that
special with the what you call it in the
thing of jigs you need to let go of some
of those what you call it and thing
ofama jigs I'm serious you need to drive
some older cars I know y'all don't know
this but I used to drive a really old
car
does anybody remember the
Box why do you think I did
that for so long 25
years yeah why it was a it was an
antique it literally was pay off with
determination unnecessary debts when
you're not only that but shortterm your
house if you can put it on a 15 not a 30
if you can and if it's on a 30 and your
numbers F score isn't big enough to
change that just throw more money at it
get it done early as early as possible
get your mortgage off of you because
that's the biggest debt probably you got
so a Biblical way to handle my money
better is to pay off unnecessary debts
with some
determination number
last cut down unnecessary spending with
discipline this is the one probably
nobody's going to like Pro you said well
I a liked anything up until this point
Proverbs 21 and verse 20 there is
desirable treasure in oil in the
dwelling of the wise but a foolish man
squanders
it blows it quit blowing your money slow
down on the outgo Proverbs 28:19 he who
teals his land will have plenty of bread
but he who follows for Vol will have
poverty enough maybe the reason you're
in debt is because you can't say
no you never seen a dress ladies that
you couldn't enjoy never seen a pair of
shoes you wanted to pass man you've
never seen a fishing trip that you
weren't willing to go on you've never
seen a golf course that you didn't want
to spend a hundred bucks
on stop
it quit being
frivolous Ecclesiastes 5 and verse 10 he
who loves silver will not be satisfied
with silver if if your problem is you
want more you are never going to get
there because the hunger fart will ruin
you he who loves silver will not be
satisfied with silver nor he who loves
abundance with increase you will never
get there there is no such thing as
arriving in a number there's no such
thing doesn't exist unless you're okay
with very little if little is not enough
nothing is
enough John 6 12 and 13 back to the uh
feeding of the 5000 so when they were
filled he said to his disciples gather
up the fragments that remain so that
nothing is
lost that's an interesting way of
looking at it don't spend it all at once
don't do it what are unnecessary
expenses that we need to be disciplined
on and to
stop cut down with discipline on
unnecessary spending like what
subscriptions if you're
hurting cut
YouTube if you're hurting cut
cable if you're hurting cut cut the
internet if you're hurting turn the
Apple phone back
in if you're hurting give up that
membership I told somebody to give up I
won't tell you who I told somebody what
they needed to do they were in a mess
financially it was years ago but it was
here I don't see them so I'm
okay they were were in a mess
financially didn't want to hear anything
I had to say but they wanted
money do you know how often that happens
Twi Lots right amen
amen what good would that do A1 $150 a
month less how would that help when our
number is this if you can't see that I
can't help you what the problem is there
is not money do you understand me when
when you say things like that the
problem is that money the problem is
called discipline you're undisciplined
and until you're willing to discipline
yourself and say no to yourself you will
never get a hold of this
thing unless you're willing to say no to
what I want you will never get a hold of
your
finances subscriptions C internet
membership what else impulse purchases
God just have it oh I got to have it
Mommy I got to have it and you give into
that little kid that ought to be whipped
instead of listen to
him we we we got to have that Xbox we
got to have that next game no you
don't you don't have to ever play that
again you don't ever have to do that
again you don't ever have to go to that
place again no we don't have to do that
quit we got to go to Disney really you
got to go to Disney there's nothing new
at Disney it's so old everything there
is 50 years old and you've ridden it
four times and you didn't enjoy it any
other times you've been let Disney go
they're weird
anyway gaming let it go gambling now
look I'm not telling you that all
gambling is a sin but I will tell you
that if you can't control it you are a
sinning cuz that getting in the car is a
gamble around here if you don't believe
it get out there on that road out that's
a gamble right out there my car's been
hit out there I think
twice entertainment let some of it go
you don't have to have it cut down show
some discipline on your
overspending shop around for a better
deal wait a little while save up compare
prices look for
discounts it's old stuff I'm not
preaching anything new this is old stuff
it's been true forever
so the Bible way to handle my money
better is to cut down unnecessary
spending with discipline so this is the
lesson that was the last time what we
talked
about how to handle my money number one
today it's build up unnecessary savings
with
discernment pay off unnecessary debts
with
determination and cut down unnecessary
spending with discipline well that solve
everything no we've got more lessons
coming but there it'll knock a hole in
it too often stewardship of money is
poorly planned and it leads nothing but
to your struggles and your
unhappiness I want you to have the best
life here and then eternal life there I
just want to help you as one who's
failed on just about everything I've
talked about I have been the failure my
face is the poster
child so too often our stewardship of
giving is poorly planned and we just
throw some money in the direction of a
church without ever thinking about it
without ever praying about it try
thinking about it try praying about it
it's bad to give without thinking I
heard of a fell at the office was told
that uh of this incident that happened
happened at his friend's house he said
there's a couple of couples over at this
house one day they were
co-workers and uh this friend had called
a venetian blind repair man to come and
pick up one of his blinds in the house
that was faulty that wasn't working
right so he called this repairman to
come over and the next morning these two
families were gathered eating breakfast
together and as they were seated around
the table
uh the next morning there was a doorbell
and so the wife of the house got up and
went to the door and the man man outside
said I'm here for the Venetian
blinds she excused herself give me just
a moment she went back inside went past
them in the kitchen went over to the
counter got her purse reached in grabbed
some money and went back and handed it
to him and came back in and said uh pour
some coffee said what was that all about
she said somebody collecting for the
blinds sometimes you just throw money at
stuff without thinking money is not the
solution to
everything it won't you can't buy a
Stairway to
Heaven money's not everything we need to
pay more attention to what we're doing
as good stewards someone once said a
Biblical way to do it is to gain all you
can save all you can and give all you
can to do that you have to pay attention
to what you're doing you can't just
ignore it can't put a bill in a drawer
it won't get paid you can't ignore it
you can't just keep going throwing
plastic at something it won't work you
need to learn how to handle your money
biblically but before that you need to
learn how to handle yourself biblically
you need to hear the gospel believe that
Jesus is the Risen Lord confess that
before men and literally be baptized
immerse that person and bring up a new
and afterwards that's committed to doing
the right thing see your debt was paid
your sin debt was paid that's the
biggest debt you've ever had it's way
bigger than your house it's way bigger
than your car the sin debt was paid by
Jesus and you need discernment to see
that you need determination to receive
it and you need the discipline to live
accordingly
