first I want to thank the leaders the
eldership here at this
congregation and
Rex uh oversight uh delivering messages
of Soul that's designed
to lead your souls back to your
father we also we are a Congregation of
the church that belongs to our Lord he
died and purchased it with his own blood
let's pray to God before we begin our
study holy and righteous and loving God
who art in heaven we are truly grateful
for all the blessings of this life
father we're mindful of that great
sacrifice that was made on our behalf
that gives us the privilege we call your
children giving us the privilege
together here together is one heart one
mind and one objective and that's to
serve and recognize you as the king
father go with our hearts and our minds
as we go into this period of study
father I pray that something will be
said that will uplift us all and make us
all better fit to be members of your
family and to serve you in a manner that
will be acceptable to you forgive us of
our shortcomings and help us to be
strong in our areas of Our Lives where
we're weak it's in jesus' name we ask
this in all
blessings as was said to you this
morning Rex said that we were going to
begin a
study on
stewardship as we begin to study as we
focus in on
stewardship the theme God is able is a
fact of
life God said let there be light and
there was light he spoke everything that
exists into existence so God is
able this evening I want to speak to you
about uh a a great preacher Who Came
From Heaven he came to this earth he
took on a carnal body like you and I
and he dwelt among men and he delivered
some wonderful
sermons uh I was our topic of
study tonight is
stewardship is
priority we're going to look at uh
exactly what is stewardship we're going
to look at uh some ideas that is
associated with being a good Steward uh
um our subject is um recognizing your
priorities and I believe that Jesus and
his sermon he's he preached a sermon
that we recognize or we call The Sermon
on the Mount he preached that sermon it
consist of many
subjects across three chapters of the
Bible 5 six and seven they all are very
important subjects but in the context of
one of his his subjects in in in uh in
chapter
6 you can study the these portions for
yourself the P the portion that I'm
going to present to you well I tell you
what I do let's uh just read uh in in
chapter
6 of
uh of Matthew I might have said Genesis
but Matthew chapter
6 the first four verses of that passage
he's he's speaking against
hypocrisy and AMS giving so he begins
this discussion about giving notice what
he says in in the first four verses of
of chapter 6 of Matthews he says uh
Beware of practicing your righteousness
before others PE other people in order
to be seen by them for then you will
have no reward from your father who is
in heaven thus when you give to the give
to the needy sound no trumpet before you
as the Hypocrites do in the synagogues
and in the streets that they may be uh
praised by others truly I say to you
they have received their reward but then
you give to the needy do not let your
left hand know what your right hand is H
is doing so that your giving may be in
secret and your father who is who sees
in secret will reward you openly what is
he saying here now the the the
contextual picture of that passage is
simply he's speaking against hypocrisy
in your amps now as as Rex said this
morning these s these these the
presentations of these subjects that we
that's going to be presented to you not
it's not always about
giving though they are important giving
is an important part of your worship
there are five parts of worship giving
is just one of
them there are
other uh uh uh uh you have other uh uh
uh Properties or other gifts that God
have given you that you are a steward of
we're going to talk about some of those
but in doing so I want you to recognize
in that passage that we just read
against hypocrisy that's how he opens up
that chapter but what we're going to
deal with is primarily chapters
25-34 and also chap uh verses I say it's
chapters I meant verses 19- 24 and
verses 24- 34 we're going to deal with
them you notice our scripture reading he
concludes his train of thought in
Matthew Matthew 633 he's speaking to his
students he says to them seek ye first
the kingdom of God and his righteousness
and all these things what things are you
talking about Jesus all these things
shall be added un you all these things
is keeping you from serving God all
these things that you put before
honoring God don't be a hypocritical
Giver is what he's what his message he's
look he's he wants you to examine your
heart heart not only when you give but
in anything that you do as it relates to
the work or the benefit that is
associated with the church God's
people he want you to consider where is
your heart when you do these things you
know you remember what Jesus said in
Mark 12 verse 43 uh 43-44 where he's
talking about uh these men who stowing
money into the treasury and this one
woman who put in all she had which was
about a penny that was all she had and
he said she gave more than all of them
because her heart was right so when you
give to God you make sure that your
heart is right don't give grudgingly
don't give because people expecting you
to give don't give so you can brag to
your neighbor your friend that I gave x
amount of dollars that's not the
point Y your stewardship the things that
you're responsible for is more than your
money but it is part of your money so
we're going to talk about those things
this evening and we're going to look at
um as a as a topic of study we're going
to look at uh Matthew 6 and let's look
at verse uh verses
19 we're going to study first verses
19 through
24 trust God's command is 30 is 25
through 34
but he's he's in his first
int introduction to his study Jesus uses
evil as being worldly minded he refers
to being evil as being worldly minded so
now what is he saying he's encouraging
his
students don't think like the world
don't make your decisions being like the
world you remember how he concluded that
this this study he said seek ye first
the kingdom of God if you're seeking God
then your thoughts are not of this
world
your inner man is not focused on storing
up stuff in this world seek ye first the
kingdom of God now the kingdom of God is
the ruling Authority in your heart you
need to make God he need to sit on the
throne of your heart that is the idea
that he's trying to share with his
people stewardship
which we all are
stewards stewardship is is is careful
and responsible management of something
that has been
entrusted uh to you to one's care you
are a stward of certain things that God
have given you freely he given you your
life and charges you nothing for it he
allows you to breathe his air while you
Tabernacle on his Earth and enjoy all
the beauties of his creation
you are a Ste of these things you need
to be concerned about it he give you
brothers and
sisters to share in your thoughts and in
your mind and and and to be a part of
what you
believe you are a steward to make sure
you take care of your brothers and
sisters you are Steward to make sure
that you live that life in such a way
that God will be uh will will accept you
back into his home
you to Ste of that you're not to waste
your life uh alcohol smoking doing all
those crazy things that's not what he
want for his children he want you to
appreciate your life stewardship is
responsibility so when you get your
priorities in order the idea associated
with the word seek
denotes uh an active and diligent search
or inquiry on how to properly care for
the properties uh that your benefactor
has given you now he he's given you more
than than monetary things you got to
consider some of these other things that
you responsible for uh that that that
you may you might be able to return them
to him uh to its owner undamaged man is
a created being you see uh uh he owns
nothing when God built this world or
created this world
World there was nothing here how can you
take nothing and make
something but God did it everything is
done by the power of the spoken word
that's what Jesus brought to us he
brought to us a message from God the
power of the spoken word will restore us
back to our originally original created
position with God and and give us the
privilege or to to receive uh eternal
life which is part of our inheritance as
a child of God All fathers want to leave
their children something God want to
leave us with eternal life that's what
he intended for us to have before for
Disobedience entered into this world as
I told a class this morning there are
two pass there are two chapters in the
entire Bible where there is no sin
that's chapter 1 and two of Genesis from
gen from Genesis 3 through Revelation
you see you read about Sin and you see
sin at work so we have a responsibility
we have a responsibility to get our
priority is right so we can seek first
the kingdom of God once we do that then
we're living a pleasing life to God he a
man owns nothing for every Beast uh in
in in Psalms
50 verse 10 and 11 there we read for God
says this for every for every beast of
the forest is mine the cattle Upon A
Thousand Hills is M you know what he on
the hill
too I know all the fs of the
mountains and the wild beasts of the
field are
Minds so we're going to talk a little
bit about recognizing priorities once we
recognize our priorities and get them in
order then we can submit our obedience
unto the authority of God we've been
studying in our Auditorium class
Authority we know that God has Authority
he is all authority he has the right to
delegate that Authority he have
delegated certain authorities to Jesus
Jesus have delegated certain authorities
to us we have we have certain
authorities we got a responsibility one
of them is to go into all the world and
preach the gospel it's your
responsibility to learn how to present
God's message to people people are dying
every day outside of the blessings of
God your responsibility are we carrying
that Banner are we taking up that Banner
are we taking up our cross and following
Jesus are we willing to give up this
world seek ye first the kingdom of God
are we willing to give up this world and
the beauties of this world and follow
behind Jesus not get ahead of him but
stay behind
Jesus world mindedness is a common
disease that has infected all
Humanity God don't want his children to
be infected with world-mindedness that's
why Jesus taught the message seek ye
first the kingdom of God if we if God is
our
desire then we'll be SE seing him we'll
be learning everything is possible that
we can learn about him that anything
that will please him not
ourselves so because
uh the desires for the treasures of this
world is a sin that that is used by
Satan Satan uses that he uses our human
desire to entrap our
souls and we spend our time our money
and our efforts buying things that it's
not going to be here not going to be
here alone you know that's why Jesus
told his students Jesus is speaking to
those students that he was talking to he
says lay
up for yourselves Treasures in
Heaven where
neither
moth nor rust does
corrupt and where thieves do not break
through and Ste steal that's chapter 20
of of Matthew
6 your thoughts your actions the things
that you do are supposed to be are
predicated to be directed
toward pleasing your father pleasing God
looking at God the treasures of Heaven
are Eternal
those of this world are carnal and
fading away you think about some that
things that people have given up their
lives for I'm going tell you something a
sad story I heard as a teenager growing
up and I watched this growing up I
watched the man kill another man because
he was angry about something he kicked
that man
car where's that car now he killed that
man over that where's that car I want to
I want you think about
that he threw away his
freedom he was not a good steward
he put that piece of 10 ahead of the
life of a human
being when people do things like that
they're not thinking their Treasures are
in this
world they're not in heaven they're not
thinking about
God think about your giving your giving
reflects your real priorities of
life now we talk we talked a little bit
about giving this morning mon mon AR
things but giving is not always seen as
monetary uh contribution that you put in
the traded come by that's not always uh
Encompass your
giving it can also reflect uh on how you
use your time what are you doing with
your time in our class we talked about
uh
8,767 hours in a year and if you spend
one hour hour a day
365 hours a
year focusing on God studying about
God that's not too much to ask for
eternal life is it what are you going to
do with the rest of that time was the
question that was posed this morning in
the class so you got to think about
these things but if you don't think
about them you'll never act them so you
have to think about those things uh the
light of the body is the eye if
Therefore your eye be single and I think
uh Rex spoke about the single eye the
single eye this morning if I remember
correctly uh the light of the body is is
single but if the uh if thine eye be
evil thy whole
body shall be full of
darkness and if therefore the light that
is in thee be Darkness how great is that
light that's the that's the that's the
question Jesus posed before his students
in in in in 6 23 22 and 23 he asked them
what what what are you what are you
focusing what are you using your energy
for where are you where are you focusing
your energy is it on
you or is it on the kingdom of God the
single eye affects those who see the
works of the Lord as their priority
that's a single eyed person he's
thinking about what can I do
to uh live in such a way that God will
be pleasing with the life that I live
this life belongs to God he gave it to
me and he wants me to use this life that
he have given me to benefit
others we have that responsibility we
ought to go in all go into all the world
everywhere we go and tell people about
Jesus Jesus said that upon being
resurrected from the dead he said to his
Apostles go ye into all the world and
preach the gospel to Every Creature he
that believes in his baptized shall be
saved one group of people but the
Believers they are the save he that
believeth not shall be damned the ones
that don't believe and reject the truth
of God's message they're condemned they
condemned themselves God didn't God give
them the privilege to come to him come
unto me all ye that labor in heaven lay
and I'll give you rest take your yoke
upon take my yoke upon you and learn of
me for I meek and lowly at heart and you
will find rest for your soul is it rest
that you looking for on this side of
Eternity and rest that you need on the
other side of Eternity then come to
Jesus and live in a way that Jesus will
accept you the evil view is selfishness
you see nothing but what you want I mean
my syndrome it's all about
me it's not about what God would have me
to do to make this world a better place
for those who might not know and
appreciate his uh his his will or know
and appreciate the things that he has
done for them like sending them Jesus
his responsibility to tell them about
that uh the PRI
priority is to accumulate Treasures in
this world that's what us that's what
the evil the evil ey is his main
priority is to get all he can get while
he's
here because see he don't believe that
there's another life he don't believe
that life continues he believe that when
you're dead that's it there is nothing
else but that's not what God's word
teaches we need to understand what God
word word teaches Satan uses the
treasures of this world to ens snare the
hearts of men and he's he does a good
job of it he does an excellent job to
show you all the beauty and show you
what man can take God's material and
make and and make and let you so you can
throw your soul away trying to get stuff
that already belongs to God God says
seek ye first the kingdom of God and all
these things will be added unto you we
have no idea what all these things but
they're better than what we we'll get
thrown our lives away for we do know
that we there that what God has for us
is far greater than anything that we can
see for as diamonds and jewels there's
nothing wrong with owning those things
but don't sell your soul for
them that that's the that's what God
wants us to do now and now notice what
he says in uh in 2 Corinthians 3 and
verse 4 he says though people that fall
into that trap in whom the God of this
world have blinded the mind of them
which believe not least the light of the
Glorious gospel uh should uh uh glorious
gospel of Christ who is the image of God
should shine unto them so they can't see
the truth of God's message God's plan of
Eternal salvation they can't see it
because they're too busy looking at the
things of this life the things of this
world they cannot see God's Beauty
Matthew and Matthew uh Matthew said
uh talk to uh Christians people who
believe the truth of God's word this is
his message to you he said let your
light so shine before
men that they uh that they may see your
good works and Glory seen when you let
your light shine among men they know who
you are they know who you
represent a child of God cannot
serve
himself and God
in verse 24 of our study passage of the
sermon of Jesus Jesus talking to his his
his pupils he says no man can serve two
masters for either he will hate the one
and love the other or else he will hold
to the one and despise the other you
cannot serve God and mamm if God is your
master if God is your focus in this life
he must occupy your mind he must occupy
the Throne of your your heart he must be
there he only he can sit on that Throne
you got to get yourself off the throne
the problem with most people they can't
get themselves out the way they'll tell
you I've had studies with people and
they'll say uh but but but I can't see
that will but I
can't you can't get yourself out the
way get your butt out the
way and then you won't have but I can't
understand it but I don't see it that
way that's what it says you got to learn
how to dissect what God has said to you
and accept it it might not I might not
always agree with everything but I tell
you one thing this is a
fact God is
right God is right I don't know anything
you know I like the way job put that in
job nine see you need to read that
sometime job nine put it in a simple
way we are nothing everything belongs to
God he created everything who who am I
to stamina before God and tell God I I I
don't believe that God I I don't accept
that I don't understand that that's
simply because I don't want to do it I
don't want to obey
it so we have to submit ourselves to God
we have to S submit ourselves to his
authority if God is the master he will
sit on the throne of our life what about
greed if greed is your
master if greed is your
master then your your Treasures are on
in this life it's on this Earth You
trying to get all you can get you're
trying to get the biggest bank account
you're trying to you trying to own as
many cars as you possibly can that's
going to be rust boat a bucket boat a
bucket of rust in 10 years what are you
doing with your the the the the talents
and and the time and the finances and
your life that that belongs to God are
you a good Steward are you doing what
God would have you to do with those
things
it's your responsibility as well as M we
are to put our priorities in order and
we ought to go into this brand new year
with the
determination to walk behind the Cross
of Christ and live in a way that God
will gladly accept us into his home in
the Eternal world that's what we should
be doing now I want you to look very
closely at verses 30 30:
25 Matthew
16 let me
see he says in MA in in Matthew in
Matthew
uh
625 let's look at that one therefore I
say unto you take no thought for your
life you're not to be worried about this
life because it's temporal it's not you
do have an eternal being that's
indwelling you that's the one you're
trying to save that that that Eternal
being when God breathed into the
nostrils of man the breath of life and
he became that being cannot die he
breathed that being into a a carnal
being that can die therefore say to uh I
say to you just as Jesus talking now
he's talking to his
students take no thought for your life
what you shall eat don't waste your life
worrying about your next meal
or what should you drink not yet for
your body what shall you put on more
people spend more money in clothes
sometime they do and giv to the work of
the Lord he said don't waste time doing
that that's a waste of effort that's a
waste of
time what you shall put on it is not it
is not your life this is not your life
this is not what it is not the life more
than meat should you be more concerned
about eternal life than you are this
temporal life this temporal food that uh
you concerned about in the body then
reignment are you woring about clo God
is going to close you when you're
baptized into the blood of Christ your
spirit has been closed God is not
looking at your
sin he don't see your sin because the
the blood of Jesus Christ washes it
away he can close you better than you
can behold the files of the air take a
take a take a study look at the look at
the birds of the air for they so not
neither do they spend they don't store
up stuff in warehouses they don't put
money in the bank uh uh neither they
that do they reap now gather into barns
yet your heavenly father feeds
them are you not much better than they
that's a that's a that's a that's a
question are you not much better than
they God puts you God honors you he PS
you up he he he he he he
he the psalmus
asks why are you so concerned about us
what is it about
us you his prize
creation are you not much better than
they which of You by taking thought can
add one cubit into his
stature by taking thought of wording
about what's what's what's going on with
your life how how long is that going to
make you that going to make you live one
minute longer is it going to make you
grow any taller is it going to is it
going to make you any different than
what you are that's not where you your
thought should be and why take you
thought for the rant consider the lilies
of the
feeld how they grow they they
they they toore not neither do they
spin and yet I say unto you that even
Solomon and All His glory was not arised
like one of these the lies look better
than Solomon and all his clothing and
all the money he had to dress himself
even a l in the field look better than
him in the eyes of God wherefore I
wherefore if God so Clos the grass of
the
fields which today is and tomorrow is
cast into the oven shall he not much
more clothe you oh ye of little faith
therefore take no thought saying what
shall we eat or what shall we
drink or where or wherewith shall uh we
be clothed fath all these things do the
Gentile seek the children of God the
children of Satan do
that the children of the devil they
waste their time doing that but the
children of God God is sitting on the
throne of their life their main priority
in this life is to live in such a way
that they can live pleasing to God that
he would accept them into his eternal
home once they depart from this
temporary home we are Time Travelers we
are traveling through this period of
time when our period of time is ended
we're going into another world we want
God to accept us there it's our
responsibility we have to find out what
it is that I can do while Tabernacle
here on this Earth and what how can I
live in such a way that God will accept
me for your heavenly father knoweth that
ye have need of all these things trust
God put your faith in God believe that
God will make a way for you you don't
have to worry about the government you
don't have to worry about anything
because you are a child of the most
potent power that ever exists in this
universe and you claim him as your
father treat him like your
father Jesus warns his uh his followers
against seeking the distrustful ch of
this life but to seek the authority of
God greed and selfishness often and
snares the poor as does H the love of
riches does for the
wealthy they all we all in trap chasing
after the wind that's what Solomon said
you never catch it his warning is
against uh his warning is against that
which is temporal not to be overly
concerned about the cares of this life
temporal life don't be over concerned
about it focus in on the eternal life
the length of life is in the hands of
God how long you live on this Earth
that's God's business you do all you can
to keep yourself as health as you can
and do all you can to live in such a way
that God will accept you when this life
ends one whose trust is in God's
Authority has this Principle as a
priority his focus is not on tomorrow
tomorrow he's not anxious about the
future he realizes all life belongs to
God man's priority is to seek that which
pleases his benefactor and God is our
benefactor God have made us our
stewards of
life he made us stewards of all the
gifts of this life and all the gifts of
this world everything belongs to God and
God is our father for God so loved the
world that he gave us his only begotten
son that whosoever believe in the son
shall not perish but have every eternal
life if eternal life is what you want
become a good Steward of those things
that God have given you take
responsibility for them if you never
been baptized for the remission of your
sins you never
accepted the blessings of God You' never
accepted the fact that you need your
sins to be washed away you never
accepted the fact that God is the The
Authority he's the only one that can
take away your sins he's the only one
that can allow you to be a part of his
family he opens the door for you when
you obey the spirit when you obey the
teachings of Jesus Christ his son if
you've never done that why don't you do
it why Terry why don't you do it why
don't you do it now while we stand while
we sing the song that was announced
