you know when people ask about being
blessed
forgiving they're usually talking about
tangible
things And I I don't think they've got
it
yet Now that's not to say that God does
not bless us with tangible things
Clearly we are all tangibly blessed
right here right
now But sometimes we get convinced that
um we need a lot more
There's a Christian folk story from uh
the south of India It goes something
like this There's a young boy who loved
to play marbles Nobody plays marbles
anymore Ain't that funny some of y'all
wouldn't even know how to start Never
been down in a circle Don't even know
Don't you know any rate So back to the
concept So the boy loved to play marbles
He had a particularly favorite marble
which is often the case He had a
specially blue marble that he just loved
and it had won him many matches and won
him many matches And so he kept that in
a little uh like a sock you know uh that
he carried with him One day he's walking
along and he saw this young girl about
his same
age and she was eating a bag of
chocolates Well he had never had a bag
of chocolates So he's like "Man I've got
to have those chocolates I' I'd love
those chocolates I'd give anything to
have those chocolates So in his head
he's thinking "Well she's got those
chocolates and I've got marbles Maybe I
could trade her marbles for candy." So
he goes up to her and he makes the deal
and says "I'll give you all my marbles
if you'll give me all your candy." And
she says she thought about it a minute
says "Okay." But what he does is he
reaches down in his bag and he finds he
knows exactly what that blue one feels
like and he pushes that one to the
bottom and C cups his hand up for the
other ones that are above that Pulls it
out and says "Here." And so she gave him
all the candy and he walks away thinking
"Man I was smart on that I get to keep
my blue marble is going to win me all
these other marbles and and I've got all
this chocolate and all of a sudden he
thinks to himself uh and he stops A
terrible thought occurs to him He turns
to her and he says "Hey did you give me
all the
chocolates?" You see he did the same
thing We want everything the kingdom has
to offer without giving up everything
Yeah we're not really maybe as deeply
invested as we sometimes think we are
but we want all the
blessings Yeah you bless me Lord but I I
I got to keep
this Charles Spurgeon told a story He's
the only one I ever heard tell the story
He said there was a gardener who one day
presented the king who was coming by
where he was working He presented him
his greatest carrot that he had ever
grown and he just gave it to him Said
"This is for you your
majesty." And the king was so touched
that he'd given him the best carrot he
had ever raised He responded by giving
the gardener a large plot of land He'd
never owned anything And he gave him a
plot of land But there was a a nobleman
nearby when this all happened And he's
watching this He sees the gardener give
this carrot and he sees the king give
this plot of land to this poor man who's
just a gardener and he thinks to himself
"Aha that's the way to do it." So he
approached the king and he offered him
his greatest horse beautiful animal and
he gave it to the king And the king says
took the horse and said "Thank you." and
walked
on And the nobleman was a bit confused
He finally said to the king "What's
going on you you gave that man all he
gave you was a carrot and you gave him a
plot of land I gave you this beautiful
animal the best I've got and you just
said "Thank you." And the king replied
"That gardener was giving me the
carrot but you were giving yourself that
horse." Are you really giving
it you really giving it ministry is
filled with
fools who
give never expecting anything in return
2 Corinthians 12 14- 15 says "I will not
be a burden to you for I do not seek
what is yours but
you." I will most gladly spend and be
expended for your souls If I love you
more am I to be loved
less You see it isn't about what you get
back You'll get plenty You know
sometimes the best thing you get back is
a feeling and that's
it I think a feeling like well
done I think I could go on that one How
about
you do I need more than that do I need
the gold
no Big position
no I think we need to consider what it
is that we think we're looking for when
we're wanting to be blessed Have you
really thought through it maybe you've
already got
it So we've looked at three different
lessons before Now I won't read all
those to you Treat you like a child I'm
not going to do that But that's what
we've looked at so far We're going to
talk about how to handle my money today
And I want to take it from the
perspective not I'm not talking to you
about giving You're going to think I'm
talking to you about giving That's not
really what I'm talking about I'm
talking about how to handle your money
I'm going to give you three ideas that
should affect the way you handle your
money And these are not about the before
Before I was trying to keep you from
losing your money right now I'm not
trying to keep you from losing your
money or messing up the budget or
anything like that I'm trying to help
you to learn how to handle your money as
a Christian Okay how to handle your
money as a Christian So number
one to handle my money
properly I should honor the Lord
That doesn't have to be with my money
but I must honor the Lord It doesn't
have to be with the things I possess but
I must honor the Lord 1st Samuel 2:30
therefore the Lord God of Israel says I
said indeed that your house and the
house of your father he's talking to Eli
now the house and the house of your
father would walk before me forever
Eli and his sons and his son's sons and
sons sons you know that changed Eli was
not going to be the L lineage It turned
to a different guy that you might
remember who the Sadducees are named
after and Zadok Zadok is what it ends up
named after The house of your father who
would walk before me forever But now the
Lord says "Far be it from me For those
who honor me I will honor and those who
despise me shall be lightly esteemed All
I'm trying to tell you is you're looking
maybe for some blessings and I'm just
simply trying to tell you honor the Lord
That's the first way you make sure In 2
Chronicles 26:18 "And they withtood King
Aziah and said to him because King Oziah
got a little too big for his britches he
decided he could walk into the temple of
God the tabernacle of God and offer
incense just as much as any high priest
could even though he never been assigned
to a king to do such a thing." And they
withtood King Uzziah These are the
priests talking to him and said to him
now that's a that's a tough thing to do
to withstand a king because a king can
have your
head King Oion said to him "It is not
for you Isaiah to burn incense to the
Lord but for the priests the sons of
Aaron who are consecrated to burn
incense Get out of the sanctuary for you
have trespassed." Listen to what he says
You shall have no honor from the Lord
God
Honor the Lord Honor the Lord with all
you got This is not a money thing but it
is true of the money too Proverbs 3:es 9
and 10 Honor the Lord with your
possessions That doesn't mean give them
all Honor the Lord with your possessions
and with the first fruits of all your
increase So your barns will be filled
with plenty and your vats will overflow
with wine And some people only hear
verse 10 about that vats overflowing and
having all the stuff That's all they
hear about that Matthew 15:8 these
people draw near to me with their mouth
They come before me They worship me They
sing those songs even though half the
time they're not paying attention to
what they're saying The people draw near
to me with their mouth and honor me with
their lips but their heart their heart
is far from me
It's a three-year-old girl I think
caught the spirit of what I'm really
trying to drive home here Her uh I we
never gave these to our kids
consistently What do you call them uh
you allowance I don't really believe in
that but if you want to give that to
your kid go ahead So they she got two
quarters a week as an allowance okay for
doing nothing That's the reason I don't
believe in it So two two quarters a week
just because he's a kid right and so
what she would do because you know she's
a little girl and and she thought she
loved Jesus probably did right so she'd
go to church and every Sunday she would
give half of her two quarters She'd put
one of those quarters in the collection
plate And wouldn't that wonderful i mean
a little girl decided that all on her
own They give her two quarters 50 cents
and she put one in the collection plate
But that's just the beginning of the
story One Sunday they had to be gone You
know how you do you sometimes you're
gone and sometimes on these trips you
can't even go to church sometimes that
happens Well that's what happened to
them And so now they're back at their
home church right and so trying to teach
her to make up for your giving if you
didn't give consistently So she they
gave her three quarters right so that
she could make up with two of those
quarters right and keep one of the
quarters That's what they were doing
with the little girl And so the little
girl said "Oh good I'll give one for God
and one for Jesus." And we thought
"Isn't that cute that was so cute." We
parents are just so thrilled with their
little girl that she's got this attitude
Except the next
Sunday she's crying They give her two
quarters and she's crying And they said
"What's
wrong?" She said "Where's the quarter
for Jesus
so we had to change the amount of money
we give her in her lambs and give her
three quarters So she give one for Jesus
and one for God the Father She says "I'm
dreading it but it's going to come She's
going to find out about the Holy
Spirit."
So to handle my money properly I don't
just need to honor the Lord I need to
honor the vows the vows I make
Deuteronomy 23:es 21-23 it says when you
make a vow to the Lord and and let me
explain vows most people don't know vows
anymore they don't understand what a vow
is and they don't understand votive
offerings which are connected to vows
votive offerings were the offering that
you promised in a vow and you made a vow
because you said this you made a deal
with the Lord if you do this I'll do
this if you do this I'll do this that's
a biblical concept concept I know we
don't talk about it much anymore but
it's actually a biblical concept You can
do that with God and you can do it with
the devil And as a bunch of folks made
the deal with the devil but you can do
it with God Let me start over now and
read it again When you make a vow that's
a promise to the Lord If you'll bless me
this way I'll do this thing You can do
that That's within your capacity within
your rights It's a biblical concept You
don't believe me just dig into the Bible
a little closer and you'll understand
I'm not telling you a story there Okay
deuteronomy 23 when you make a vow to
the Lord your God you shall not delay to
pay it for the Lord your God will surely
require it of you and it would be a sin
to you So don't make a vow if you don't
intend to keep it Verse 22 but if you
abstain from vowing it shall not be a
sin to you You don't have to make a vow
about anything You don't have to do it
It's not a law But if you do make one
verse 23 that which is gone from your
lips you shall keep and perform it For
you voluntarily vowed to the Lord your
God what you have promised with your
mouth and you need to do it Proverbs
20:2 says it is a snare for a man to
devote rashly that is to make these vows
to devote rashly something as holy and
afterward to reconsider his
vows So you can't do
that So basically it's like owing
somebody You make a deal You go in you
want to buy something You want to buy
your house You can't just say suddenly
to the bank "Oh by the way I've decided
not to pay you the rest of this." That
won't work out for you okay the house
will not be yours soon Ecclesiastes 5:es
4-6 says this "When you make a vow to
God do not delay to pay it For he has no
pleasure in fools Pay what you vowed
Better not to vow than to vow and not
pay Do not let your mouth cause your
flesh to sin nor say before the
messenger of God that it was an error I
I messed up I didn't really say that Why
should God be angry at your excuse and
destroy the work of your hand and if you
don't believe you can make a deal with
the devil have you ever read the
temptation of Christ back in Matthew
chapter 4 that's exactly what he's
offering him in that text in 2
Corinthians chapter 9 and verse 5 It
says this "Therefore I thought it
necessary to exhort the brethren to go
to you ahead of time and prepare your
generous gift beforehand which you had
previously promised that it may be ready
as a matter of generosity and not as a
matter of grudging obligation." You see
because you didn't you decided you
didn't want to do it And then so the
point that I'm trying to make is if and
I'm not talking about giving It can be
applied to giving obviously right to
keep your vows but it basically applies
to everything You make a promise to
anybody You owe money pay
it Amen
Walls pay your
bills Pay your bills Pay your
bills Don't leave them in the drawer
Don't act like you don't know they're
there Pay your
bills Any promise you make keep it Like
till death do us
part Honor your
vows Don't go looking over their
shoulder at another woman
Gentlemen or
ladies keep your vows Eric Schneider is
a minister for the Farewell Church of
Christ in Farewell Michigan He tells
this story He said "I recently did a
wedding and during the rehearsal the
groom came up to me and took me aside
and he offered me $100." He said "Look
I'll give you
$100 if you'll change the wedding
vows when you get to the part where uh
we promise to love honor and obey I
appreciate it if you just leave out that
part entirely."
and he handed him the $100 and walked
away Well they got to the actual wedding
and got to the actual exchange And when
it came time for the groom's vows here's
what the minister that's telling this
story Eric Snyder did He says to the
groom "Will you promise to bow down
before her
obey her every command and
wish Serve her breakfast in bed every
morning and swear eternally before God
and your lovely wife You will never even
look at another woman as long as you
both shall
live." And said the groom
"Gulp." And in a tiny voice said "Yes."
Then he leaned over to the preacher and
he says "What happened i thought we had
a
deal." And the preacher looked over at
the the bride and says "Here's your
$100 I got a better
deal Honor what you
promise Honor your vows If you really
want to get anywhere in this life you
better do what you say you're going to
do If you don't do what you say you're
going to do your yes is not yes Your yo
no is not know And nobody can trust what
you have to say because you
lie Liars will not get ahead ultimately
and will not be blessed in this world
nor in the next Number three to handle
my money properly I should honor the
poor
I should honor the poor Proverbs 14:31
"He who oppresses the poor reproaches
his
maker but he who honors him has mercy on
the needy." If you really honor God you
have to honor the
needy Proverbs 11:25 "The generous soul
will be made rich." That's a pretty good
promise That doesn't necessarily mean in
money but it can mean that the generous
soul will be made rich and he who waters
will also be watered himself There'll be
a day when somebody will need to do
something nice for
you and you'll go home and cry about it
because they did it
Proverbs 19:17 "He who has pity on the
poor lends to the Lord and he that is
God the Lord will pay back what he has
given." You have made the best deal
you've ever made right there If you help
out somebody in need Proverbs 22:9 he
who has a generous eye get that a
generous eye will be blessed for he
gives of his bread to the poor Now you
remember I've taught you about this The
evil eye The evil eye is when you look
down on somebody because they don't have
what you have because they're not as
smart as you They've not been as clever
as you Or maybe they've just not been as
blessed as you were and you didn't
deserve any of it And you think it's
because you did wonderful things And you
may have just been around a good mom and
dad who left you something You don't
know the reason So don't be too smart
Alica on this thing But listen to me
carefully A generous eye is an eye that
sees people with pity and not just
stepping over
them And I've given you a ton of
scripture on that You need to look that
up John Chrysstrom Now most of you don't
know John Christom John Christom is well
known in religious circles If you go a
little deeper and you go back in history
he used to preach to a 100,000 people on
Sunday 100,000
Yeah way back Probably not one service I
was probably all day long Anyway he's a
theologian a preacher and a 4th century
man And he said this and so I I would
think that the people thought he was
fairly smart Listen to what he says The
almsgiver is a harbor you know where the
boats go Is a harbor for those in
necessity A harbor receives all who have
encountered shipwreck and frees them
from
danger It frees them from
danger whether they are bad or good It's
not about their
character You don't have a harbor just
to protect the good
folk whether they're bad or good He
escorts them into his own shelter So you
likewise when you see on earth the man
who has encountered the shipwreck of
poverty do not judge
him Do not seek an account of his
life but free him from his
misfortune Be a good harbor
master This is the lesson today You want
God to honor
you honor the Lord You want God to honor
you and bless you honor your
vows You want God to honor you and bless
you honor the
poor Treat everyone with respect You
know giving to good folks or giving to
good causes or giving to good churches
it's not everything That's not
everything but it's a step in the right
direction
Can I tell you a story about a couple of
our members y'all all know who they are
but I won't blame the last name It's Jim
and
Sharon This story came to me a few weeks
ago I hope I can tell
it They were having breakfast at my
favorite restaurant Y'all know what my
favorite restaurant is mcdade That's it
So they were having at the the La Micade
and
u they noticed a man down on his
luck He went up to the staff and he
asked for a cup of hot
water That's
it Cup of hot
water The Micade
staff reluctantly gave it to him You
could tell they didn't want to do it
They gave him the cup of water He
proceeded to put various free condiments
into that water so that he could have
some kind of
sustenance He was
hungry He was so hungry Sharon says to
Jim "You see that
man?" Pointed him
out Jim got up went over and gave him 20
bucks That's wonderful That's not the
story And he told him "Get you whatever
you want for
breakfast." Which the poor man thanked
him and proceeded to do just that Went
and bought himself a nice
breakfast That's not the story
He then took the
change and he put it in the
slot for those charities of
McDonald's How you give is is not the
critical thing I know you think that's
what I'm talking about today It's how
you conduct your
life That's what you're
about Honoring the Lord honoring your
vows honoring the poor and not letting
it all be about
me It mustn't be about
me So I hope you catch the spirit of it
all Remember where we get this spirit
Though he was
rich yet he became poor Poorer than any
of us in this
room that through his
poverty you might become
rich I just want those blessings don't
you but I'd like to be a part what he's
about I want to join him in that spirit
If you're here today and you've never
given your life to Jesus do you
understand who he is and what he did for
you do you i
don't but I'm
trying I want to get there If you need
to give your life to the Lord we'll help
you every way we can If you need to come
come while we stand while
