people are a little crazy I think about
money and seldom follow God's rules um
it's kind of strange what people will do
you know people will do almost anything
for money it's crazy some of the things
people will do for money in fact
probably the most outrageous thing I've
ever heard of anybody doing for money
was offered on a radio station in
Chicago W Kox several years ago they
offered roughly 40 to 50,000
for the response to the question what's
the craziest thing you've ever done for
money and what came back or would be
willing to do for money and uh a lot of
different things came in what they'd be
willing to do for money but the one came
in there were 6,000 that brought in
crazy ideas and the winner was Jay gney
J gney in zionville Indiana who was with
willing to consume an 11t Birch
sapling and he did it leaves Roots bark
and all he dawned a tux set up a dining
table with elegant China sterling silver
candles Rose vase and armed with pruning
shears and he was an Indiana State
sophomore might tell you something about
Indiana State but Indiana State
sophomore eating from the top of the
tree at first he worked his way down
Branch by branch and even down to the
roots his only condiment to help swallow
all of that was French dressing knew
something was wrong with him I never eat
french dressing and so this massive
birch tree salad that he ate he ate it
and it took him 18 hours over three days
to eat an 18t birch tree and he won the
$ 40 $50,000 that they were offering
from there and when it was over he gney
complained about an upset
stomach someone said evidently the bark
was worse than his
bite it's a long way to go for
a a
joke you know Money Matters
sometimes too
much that was an insane thing to do it
could kill
him sometimes Money Matters too much I
want to compare two people I want to
compare Steve Martin with another fellow
maybe you've heard of Warren Buffett now
Steve Martin's a comedian Warren Buffett
is kind of a rich guy if you don't know
so Steve Martin what you may not know is
worth $140
million now we may be have somebody in
here worth that I doubt it but maybe
$140
million and so he says this about money
he said I love money I love everything
about it I bought some pretty good stuff
I got me a $300 pair of socks I got a
fur fur sink an electric dog polisher a
gasoline power turtl sweater and of
course I bought some dumb stuff
too that's what you do when you're worth
140 million for every
dollar he has Warren Buffett has a th000
Warren Buffett is worth 140 billion dot
dot dot more than that so he's worth 140
million Warr Warren B's worth 140.6
billion to be exact and he said this
I will tell you the secret to getting
rich you ready I will tell you the
secret to getting rich on Wall Street
you try to be greedy when others are
fearful and you try to be fearful when
others are
greedy I don't know I wouldn't know I
don't have $140 billion but God is able
to help us all learn how to be better
stewards of what he's has given us and
that's what I really want to focus on
how do we become better stewards I I
know you're going to think the series is
all going to be about getting money out
of your pocket into the church Treasury
and that's an important thing we'll talk
about that but that's not the center of
what I'm talking about today at all I
want to begin to teach some principles
that apparently some of our people have
never learned either their young young
people need to pay closer attention to
what I'm going to say today and this is
only the first of several lessons we're
going to have on the subject and these
are the baby steps we're going to really
talk about today and no that's not Dave
Ramsey I'm talking about there but I
want to talk about a few things before
we get there one is poverty is possible
and listen to me every person in this
room could live in
poverty it is possible in Genesis 40:1 L
you come to poverty and this was 5 years
of famine that they were going to face
more Leviticus 25 that was Joseph
talking to his family Leviticus 25 says
if one of your brethren falls into
poverty so Brethren can fall into
poverty you hear me so when you look
down on a brother that's that evil eye
you look down on a brother who has
fallen into poverty and you look down on
him that's terrible it can happen though
Proverbs 30:8 give me neither poverty
nor riches that's a prayer so God is in
control to some degree obviously from
that statement Mark 12 says she out of
her poverty put in all that she had and
wait a second I thought good people
shouldn't be in poverty but this Widow
put in all that she had and she lived in
poverty according to the scriptures in 2
Corinthians 8:2 says their deep poverty
talking about the macedonians their deep
poverty abounded in the riches of
liberality so you could be in poverty
and can give more maybe than you even
should and that happens too in 2
Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 9 it
says for your sake he became poor that
you through his poverty might become
rich so Jesus lived in
poverty the savior of the world lived in
poverty so when you think that the poor
are all in a bad State and they're not
just remember Jesus was poor okay
before we get too high horse about what
we've done with what we
have second Truth by not following God's
rules you can cause your own poverty to
come you could be doing great right now
and in a short period of time Have
Nothing by ignoring God's rules Proverbs
6 says a little sleep a little Slumber
so shall your poverty
come Yeah by just sleeping a little too
long really well that means you're not
going to
work Proverbs 11 who he who withholds
more than is right but it leads to
Poverty so when you don't pay your bills
because you want to hold on to it too
long and the guy you owe you don't pay
you're liable to end up in poverty be
careful what you do with your money
Proverbs 13 poverty comes to him who
disdains correct
if you don't like a sermon and you don't
like what I say from up here because you
just don't like being told what to
do
careful careful Proverbs 14 idle chatter
leads only to Poverty so be careful what
you say out there when you're having
your
coffee whoa that was quiet Proverbs 20
do not love sleep lest you come to
Poverty Proverbs 21 everyone who is
Hasty should L to Poverty you in a hurry
to get rich that's a good way to lose
everything Proverbs 22 who oppresses the
poor will surely come to Poverty
Proverbs 23 the drunkard and the Glutton
will come to Poverty so if you drink a
whole lot you might want to cut back you
eating a whole lot might want to cut
back Proverbs 28 who follows for fality
will have poverty that was read a moment
ago and a man with an evil eye hastens
after riches and poverty will come to
him so
you can destroy your own Financial
well-being let's say you're in good
shape right now you can destroy it your
wife can destroy it your husband can
destroy it your children can destroy it
you can apply some bad rules and end up
not having any of the stuff you've got
you say well I've got too much for that
to happen no that's not true that's not
true you ever read about job you can
lose it all in a day no that's not true
and the economy of America is wonderful
one of the reason the economy of America
is wonderful is because there's been
Christian values and rules used right
but American can lose it all yes they
can we could all go down so from
Proverbs and Solomon who was wealthy
we're just going to look at about three
principles today this is just tiptoeing
into the whole subject not very deep
we're just going to look into some
superficial things today about what if
you haven't been doing well and
financially you're struggling a little
bit maybe you should pay close attention
to the things I'm going to be teaching
today because this is baby stuff here
and if you don't get this right it
doesn't matter what you think you're
going to do about the rest of it you
won't get there you need to listen so if
you're the person that's always looking
for a handout maybe you need to pay
attention if you're looking because you
don't understand how you don't have
enough money to get to the end of the
month maybe you ought to pay attention
to these rules okay we we look at three
here we go number one take monetary
inventory Proverbs 15:6 In The House of
the righteous there is much treasure how
would he
know but in the revenue of the wicked is
trouble so you got to stop putting bills
in a
drawer that won't
work Proverbs 23:5 will you set your
eyes on that which is not for riches
certainly make themselves Wings they fly
away like an eagle toward heaven and if
you don't know where they're going and
that's what I'm talking about here
because you haven't taken inventory you
don't know where your money's
going you don't know where it's going
you just you just don't know why we we I
just don't know why I I don't know why
we're in the mess we're in you you got
to take a money inventory if you don't
know why and you don't know where you
need to take a look that's just
practical and you can't ignore it people
will do this I don't know you know I
don't know don't want to look people
will get in financial trouble and
they'll want the church to bail them out
and they do not want us to look at their
financial situation what is that because
they won't look at
it Hagi chapter 1: 6 and seven you have
sown
much and bring in little you eat but do
not have enough you drink but you are
not filled with drink you clothe
yourselves but no one is warm and he who
earns wages earns wages to put in a bag
with holes thus says the Lord of hosts
consider your ways which is the point
I'm making you got to look at
it if the money's flying
away and you don't know where it's going
it's time to find out where it's
going it's basic so when your little or
your much is not enough it's time to
find out
why we must stop
avoiding looking at our basic bills and
our basic costs and our basic spending
you got to look at it and to not look at
it is
foolish it's foolish so the first step
in how to handle my money is to take
monetary inventory number
two track
meticulous expenses so when I said the
first thing I want to say the second
thing even stronger you got to get down
to the
pennies if you're hurting financially
it's time to look
hard to look hard and be willing to cut
out a cup of
coffee Starbucks five well I don't know
it's not $5 a cup now is it what is it
seven cup of
coffee I'm going to tell you McDonald's
has got ridiculous on the
coffee Proverbs 27 by the way you can
still swallow
water it goes down and it solves that
problem of thirst
it didn't wake you up but makes you go
to the bathroom Matthew I Proverbs
27: 23 and 24 be diligent to know now
listen to that diligent that's
meticulous be diligent to know the state
of your
flocks that takes walking around time
taking a look at it checking each of
them out well let me finish and attend
to your herds pay serve them give them
what they need for riches are not
forever nor does a crown endure to all
generations so even a king doesn't stay
king forever you have to pay attention
so just because you got a lot right now
don't mean you'll have a lot six months
from
now so you got to be very very very very
careful and take a meticulous look
listen to Luke chapter 15:4 what man of
you having a hundred sheep if he loses
one of them does not leave the 909 in
the wilderness and go after the one
which is lost until he finds it what man
is there lazy
man oh they exist oh there are people
who lose their sheep because they
haven't been out there in
months the whole herd could be eaten by
wol
and nobody even
looked you got how did he know let me
tell you something how did he know he
lost one listen to me it's real deep he
counted
them
regularly you can't look at a herd and
tell there's 100 or 99 there I promise
you you try it look at this room right
now look around you tell me how many are
here you can't do it he counted them
listen to this one verse eight or what
woman having 10 silver coins if she
loses one coin that's might be a little
Leisure you might could tell that
quickly but she does not light a lamp
and sweep the house and search carefully
until she finds it and that's just a
small amount you're going to go and
figure it out take a look
meticulous in Ecclesiastes 5 and: 11 it
says when good increases they increase
who eat them
have you noticed the more money you make
the bigger the bills are the bigger you
house you figured you had to have that
bigger house cuz you made more money
right so you got that bigger house but
there's a bigger bill that comes with
that and a lot more upkeep listen to he
says and when Goods increase they
increase who eat them so what profit
have the owners except to see them with
their eyes so when you finally see
this God listen to me God will not fix
what you refuse to look
at quit praying God bless me with more
pay attention to what you
got that's I I'm not being mean I'm
trying to tell you the truth okay pay
attention um
we must stop avoiding looking at our
expenses meticulously and listen to me
husbands and wives listen to me one of
you is listening to me and the other one
ain't nine times out of
10 one of you is blowing money like
you're made of
it and it's running out like a drip you
hear it
you're trying to keep your
money and the other one's just blowing
it do you know how often that happens
and do you know how often husbands and
wives have trouble over money because
you're not on the same page you need to
get on this page and get meticulous
about it if you want to have anything
ever otherwise it's foolishness so just
letting you your husband or your wife
who's not spin Thrift taking a credit
card to the store anytime they want is
not
wise in fact probably having a credit
card in their position is a bad
idea the first step in how to handle my
money is to track meticulous expenses
number three I'm almost through I know
it's painful but it's not really because
really this just about helping you I
know it's not the funnest lesson you
ever heard but it really will help you
if you're struggling Proverbs
21:20 there is desirable treasure and
oil in the dwelling of the wise you see
wise people have a few
things but a foolish man squanders do
you hear me now that word
squander it's foolish to
squander do you hear
it Luke
15:3 and not many days after the younger
son gathered all together he Jed to a
far country and there
wasted thus the meaning of the word
prodigal wasted his possessions with
prodical living so you got to stop the
waste and the only way to stop the waste
is with a monthly budget that's not cute
it's not beautiful it's not something
you want to here but if you don't have a
monthly budget right now that you're
working from and you're struggling you
need to hear my voice
now you need a
budget and you need to follow the
budget John 6:12 so when they were
filled he said to his disciples gather
up the fragments that remain so that
nothing is lost you know what that
teaches me and listen to
me eat
leftovers and I need more amens than
that eat
leftovers buy cheap and eat everything
there if if you're throwing your
leftovers out at the end of every meal
you're being wasteful
if you are in trouble financially and
you're taking lots of trips and you're
doing lots of things and you've bought
boats and trucks and you're spending and
spending and spending and you wear the
finest clothes in this church and you're
struggling to in pay your bills you're
being
wasteful you need to get control and
that's called a budget
we must stop avoiding looking at a set
amount this month we have a set amount
for whatever that whizbang you think we
need to have that's it
amen that's it we're not spending more
than that that's all we got allocated
this month and over here we got this
month allocated that much is what's
allocated for that whiz Bank we ain't
spending more than that this month now
we could hold off a month or two and we
could spend a chunk or larger right on
that whis bank but not this month you
got a
budget and if you're struggling to pay
your bills and you're expecting the
church to bail you out you need to hear
what I'm
saying we must stop avoiding looking at
that set amount for each item because
that is foolish so the first step is in
how to handle my money is to try a
monthly budget okay so there's the
lesson this you see how simple this is
you gotta take a monetary inventory you
got to see it you got to quit closing
your eyes to it if you're hurting you
got to look at it as as much as it will
pain you to look at how and and I don't
mean anything ugly because I've been
there how foolish you're
being you got to look at it
a and then you got to track what you
doing meticulously to figure out where
it's all
going and then you got to come up with a
plan how you could actually pay your
bills and not mess
up that's called a
budget a church does Ministry a church
does Mission work a church builds
buildings a church worships it has to
pay for the worship the lights the
everything here a church has Bible
classes which means material a church
has youth activities which means events
a church has community outreach which
means money going out the door it costs
money for a church to operate and yes
I'm saying all that to say yes of course
the church here needs your financial
support regular as well as you can do
absolutely Ely we will talk more about
that specifically as we go along of
course that's true but the first thing a
church needs is not
that that's a
mistake to think that that's the first
thing a church should be about no no no
no now the first thing a church should
be about is helping you and there are a
hundred ways that you need
help and one of the major ways you need
help is to figure out how to handle your
money so that you're not struggling so
much cuz we don't want you struggling we
don't want you hurting we don't want you
crying in the middle of the night
because you don't know how you're going
to make your mortgage
payment we don't want you upset what are
we going to do we got three more days
the end of the month and bills coming
you don't want you facing that we want
you to be relaxed about it because you
know what's happening you're aware and
that requires a little bit of teaching
for some some of you have known this
stuff all your life some of you were
raised with this stuff some of you
weren't and you need to realize that you
can be in poverty or you could do better
and the reason America has done as well
as he is God's blessed it but also
there's been a lot of
diligence but that could be
undone a man that was married for
several years his name was Paul his wife
name was Liz and they were talking one
day and Paul had noticed that Liz it
just seemed that Liz was ignoring
him uh I don't know I don't know if it
was ignoring him just didn't look like
she cared about him anymore I you've
probably never been there but he he's
felt what's going on here she just
doesn't act like she cares about me at
all then he said you know I got to
confront her you know you got to take
inventory you know and look meticulous
that they had so he said I got to talk
to her so he confronts her and he said
he told her what he
perceived
uh of the problem what he perceived the
problem really was he said come on Liz
admit
it I believe that you only married me
because my granddad left me $6 million
didn't you
and Liah said
uh you
really you really are silly
Paul I couldn't care who left you that
$6
million you know we're okay if you come
here for what we have to offer
Jesus is all we really have to offer
here and who left him here is not really
the point and we're talking about the
Brethren whoever presents him that's not
the
point we want you to have
him we want you to have the $6 million
Jesus but we want to help you to be
blessed and handle your money the best
possible too but we want more than that
we don't want you to just handle your
money well we want you to handle your
life well your family well the things
that you possess well because ultimately
we're just trying to help you find Jesus
as a steward of all things if you're
here today and you haven't been a good
Steward we'll be glad to pray for you
but it may just be best for you to sit
where you are because that would be a
difficult thing to admit I've been a bad
Steward so we'll just pray for everybody
pray with me Holy Father we pray that
you would bless us today that in this uh
invitation that we're fixing to have
that we just all consider ourselves and
think about being better at handling not
just our money but all things that you
give us it's in the name of Jesus we
pray for that wisdom amen
