you know in business um You Learn by
doing you know there's that uh medical
thing where you see one do one teach
one uh but when you are literally being
an
apprentice there's often things confused
or missed I mean that's just the process
that's the process of learning I heard
of a carpenter who took on an apprentice
and it was a
girl and the first job that they went to
involved a roof I don't know what they
were doing but they were up on a roof or
he was up on the roof and so while he
was up on the roof he shouted down to
the apprentice and said uh Tai the saw
to a rope so I can haul it
up but uh she couldn't hear what he was
saying so he yelled louder and no third
time so finally he started doing this
you know trying to
indicate I need a sa you know he's doing
all kinds of emotions like that he's
getting more and more frustrated because
she began to talk with sign language and
so she did this she
goes what does that
mean and he'd say
and this went on for a while finally got
so frustrated he climbed down the ladder
he goes over to the girl who's his
Apprentice now and he's trying to train
her he's angry and he begins to braid
her for not sending up the sa said
what's the matter with you you can't
even understand that I wanted the saw
and here was her reply of course I
understood you why can't you understand
that I'm saying you left it behind
like he didn't
know so L literally in the midst of
trying to learn there's a lot of things
that will get confused and you'll
misunderstand things um a Christian
woman said to one Minister will you
please tell me in a word what is your
idea of consecration or what is your
idea what discipleship really
means how how do you define it he picked
up a piece of paper that was blank and
he handed it to her and he said now sign
your name at the bottom of that piece of
paper and let God fill in all the
rest some of you know and maybe you've
read John Mark Comer's book on trying to
suggest that a follower of Jesus might
be better interpreted a disciple of
Jesus might be better interpreted as an
apprentice that's the reason using the
term tonight if you have those sheets
and you want to fill them in I can give
you kind of a little bit an apprentice
of Jesus I'm going to look at three
principles at the beginning here just
quickly three principles of the call to
to apprenticeship the first one was an
apprentice of Jesus is called to be with
Jesus if you've got that on your page uh
it says in Mark 3 then he appointed 12
that they might be with him and that he
might send them out to preach and
somebody says well how would that apply
today well he is the word of God Jesus
is the word of God so John 8:31-32 said
abide in my word and then you'll be my
disciples you'll know the truth and the
truth will set you free so that's the
way we abide with Jesus today by being
here as well not only that but an
apprentice of Jesus is called to be like
Jesus and so Mark I mean Matthew 10
verse 25 says it is enough for a
disciple or in our case an apprentice
that he be like his teacher and a
servant like his master if they' have
called The Master of the House be elub
how much more will they call those of
the household so if people say bad
things about you that's nothing new and
then of course an apprentice of Jesus
not only called to be with and to be
like Jesus but the they're called to be
filled with Jesus so Ephesians 1: 22 and
23 puts it this way and he put all
things under his feet talking about
Jesus and gave him that is Jesus to be
head over all things to the church
that's for us which is his body now if
the church is his
body then he is the fullness of him who
fills all in all so he fills all of us
that is the goal for Jesus just to fill
us up and us to just ooze Jesus Luke 6
is where we're going to be tonight so I
encourage you to open your Bibles to
Luke 6 I want to basically cover the
whole chapter hope you weren't planning
on going
anywhere so look at four it's actually
in four sections the chapters in four
sections and we want to look at those
four sections and the message that each
one has because what I'm want to talk
about tonight if you hadn't got it
already is the closer view of Jesus that
his apprentices had they were right
there with him they literally saw him
they saw him eat sleep go to the
bathroom they saw all these things they
saw everything there was nothing hidden
from them they were right there on boats
walking long ways riding donkeys they
were there so I'm to look at four things
just in this chapter that they had to
see in their view of Jesus because they
were close close they saw him close just
like you will if you seek to be his
Apprentice truly his disciple the first
one Jesus Apprentice viewed closely the
defense of Jesus now I'm going to read
again verses 1 through five emit did a
great job not throwing off on you emit
just going to go over some of these
again verse one says now it happened on
the second Sabbath after the first that
he went through the grain fields and his
disciples plucked the heads of grain and
ate them rubbing them in their hands
just like that and some of the Pharisees
said to them why are you doing what is
not lawful to do on the Sabbath now this
they were trying to say was work
verse three but Jesus answering them
said have you not read this what David
did when he was hungry he and those who
were with him how he went into the house
of God and took and ate the showbread
and also gave some to those who were
with him which is not lawful for any but
the priest to eat and he said to them
the son of man is Lord of the Sabbath
now even showbread now I need you to
understand this concept before we go any
further even showbread that sits on a
table for long enough goes
bad even showbread that's sacred if it's
not eaten goes bad and you were allowed
to throw it out
you really were and even a dog might eat
it so when it is not the number one that
everybody's eating it doesn't really
matter what I'm trying to tell you is
behind the scenes everybody knew this it
didn't really matter but they believed
it was not lawful to eat I just want to
give you some Apprentice takeaways from
that concept just stay with me just a
second and think through this Jesus
apprentices had an open mind to the
scriptures and to learn but his accusers
were more interested in finding proof of
their own
views they didn't really hear what he
was
saying that's a real problem e wherever
you
go and so
apprentices you apprentices should have
an open mind to learn the
scriptures and Jesus apprentices had a
hunger and a need and they had a hungry
and needy heart but his
accusers did not think they needed
anything that Jesus had and that Jesus
could not feel one inch of their
heart
beware that you don't think anybody can
teach you
anything be
careful Jesus apprentices had a view of
Jesus and the their view of Jesus was
that Jesus cared more for you when you
were
hungry than those who were Merc
Merc mercifully I'll change the word
couldn't say it
mercilessly
legalistic in their reading of the
scriptures leading them to want to treat
people
harshly and Jesus was like really this
is working on the Sabbath day and you
would tell them they'd rather go God
would rather them go hungry than to do
that when they're getting so little
anyway he just and eat I like eating two
peanuts I mean seriously yet they saw
him so I want you to view Jesus as they
did they viewed up close and personal
the defense of someone who is open and
honest and hungry
and that we should be more merciful
about such
things the second lesson is in verses 6-
11 and that is Jesus apprentices views
closely the Defiance of Jesus this is
something is not talked about much in
the church and it really ought to be it
is a serious issue if you'll read it
with me look at verses 6 through 11 now
it happened on another Sabbath also that
he entered the synagogue and and taught
and a man was there whose right hand was
withered more than likely probably had a
stroke I don't know but something like
that had happened verse 7even so the
scribes and the Pharisees watched him
closely whether he would heal on the
Sabbath that they might find an
accusation against him because now he's
really done work on the Sabbath right
right there in the middle of the
synagogue in verse eight but he knew
their thoughts and said to the man who
had the withered hand arise and stand
here and he rose and he stood then Jesus
said to them I will ask you one question
those of you who really think you know
stuff I'll ask you one question is it
lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to
do evil to save life or destroy life now
understand the Jews believed if they
were being threatened you could kill a
man on the Sabbath and they went to war
on the Sabbath they just tried not to
okay they believe that so stay with me
to save life or destroy life first 10
and when he looked around at them all
and by the way Mark Mark chapter 3
indicates he looked around at them like
he was
angry here it doesn't say that and he
looked around at them all he said to the
man stretch out your
hand now folks he couldn't stretch out
his hand
hand his hand was
withered stretch out your hand and he
did so and his hand was restored as
whole as the other but they were filled
with rage and discuss with one another
what they might do to
Jesus Now The Apprentice takeaways
there's a few of them and you need to
get them as apprentices we need to get
what's really behind the scenes on this
Jesus apprentices are like the man with
the withered hand that's the first
person in this text that we're like that
we are told to do things that seem
impossible but as we attempt it
wellah and so but we're also like this
they didn't argue with Jesus this guy
didn't say I can't stretch out my hand
he didn't make an
argument he just does
it so we too whatever God asked us to do
should just attempt it and not argue
with it and Jesus apprentices because
they were up close and they saw him
really close they saw Jesus
showed glorious defense now listen to
this we don't talk about this he showed
Defiance not just
defense the first text was a
defense now he's doing more he's defiant
toward them oh you shouldn't be like
that in this text Jesus is he could have
waited till the next day healed the guy
he didn't do
that he defied them he defied his
accusers and what we should learn from
that is to display our faith and what we
truly believe unashamedly in the face of
opposition if somebody doesn't like what
I believe bring it on Amen I believe and
it don't need your approval to believe
what I believe and if somebody decides
that I'm not a faithful Christian I
don't
care amen because I'm going to serve the
Lord Jesus no matter what they think
amen and that's Jesus in this text where
do we get that yeah from him but then
also Jesus apprentices saw some can hate
so much they can hate someone so much
that they hate them even more when they
do something
good did you pick up on that
one how about that they can hate someone
so much that even when they do something
wonderful they hate them even more why
because they love their own way ways and
having their own way more than they love
God what a thought who would think that
anybody be like that so that's the view
that we get that the apprentices had of
Jesus and you need to have that it is a
view of Jesus's
Defiance so Jesus will def defend
himself and his
Apostles and he will defend when they do
something that really shouldn't be
attacked but more than that and we
should as well but more than that we
should be
defiant literally
defiant if someone is of such character
that no matter what you do they a't
going to like it anyway then who
cares so Jesus apprentices number
three viewed closely the Disciples of
Jesus they viewed
closely the Disciples of Jesus and the
selection process look at what it says
verses 12 through 19
now it came to pass in those days that
he went out to the mountain to pray and
continued all night in prayer to God
what a wonderful thing have you ever
done that you might have done from like
3: till about 6:00 in the morning
because you couldn't sleep or have you
ever had has it ever been so bad that
you just couldn't go to sleep and you
just kept praying and praying and
praying what's bugging Jesus that he's
got to pray all night
long let's follow him and he prayed and
continued all night in prayer to God and
when it was day he called his disciples
to himself now these I don't know who
all is involved in the disciples but
disciples are disciples and from them he
chose 12 whom he also named Apostles
like missionaries to go out verse 14
Simon whom he also named Peter and
Andrew his brothers so keeping in in the
family James and John they Brothers
Philip and Bartholomew I don't know if
they're Brothers no I don't think so
verse 15 Matthew and Thomas interesting
though how he's pairing them up a it do
you notice that had a paired them up
James the son of alfus and Simon called
the Zealot interesting these parallels
these you know these partnered them up
and verse 16 Judas the son of James and
Judas the scariot who also became a
traitor verse 17 and he came down with
them and stood on a level place with a
crowd of his disciples and a great
multitude so
you know he's up on this mountain and he
comes down to little ways where they can
all see him and he gets on this level
place with a crowd of his disciples and
a great multitude this must be below him
a great multitude of people from all
Judea and Jerusalem and from the Sea
Coast of Ty and sidon who came to hear
him and to be healed of their diseases
as well as those who were Tor tormented
with unclean spirits so there was people
there with a lot of problems and they
were healed and the whole multitude
sought to touch him for power went out
from him and healed them all so what did
the apprentices take away because they
got to see this up close and personal
not like us reading it they were right
there they saw it what did they see so
Jesus apprentices saw that they were
chosen from the
common just a crowd they were chosen
with varied
backgrounds so if you get to thinking
why this don't
fit if you don't fit you
fit you got it if you're different from
everybody else
great that indicates just the guy he was
looking for or just the lady he was
looking for and Jesus a prices were
chosen from his crowd so the people that
wanted to be around him he didn't choose
him from the crowd that didn't want to
be around but from the crowd that wanted
to be around him who he would have
called his
companions I don't know how many
followed around with him we know that
there were 70 he sent out so how many
followed around that were with him
everywhere he went I can't tell you I
don't
know but from that crowd the ones that
really wanted to be around it that
really already were trying to be like
him with him be filled with they were
already doing that from that crowd he
found some special
people and Jesus apprentices were chosen
from those already in on his commission
they were already wanting to be if you
will Apostles they just didn't have a
name for it yet they were already
wanting to go give me something to
do that's who they wanted to
be and so as apprentices the Lord we
really ought to catch on to this that
the more varied we are the more common
we are that's the ones from the crowd
that just tries to follow him and those
in touch with him in his commission so
the view of Jesus disciples was some
interesting things we learned about
ourselves in
it all right the last point we're
looking at this is the four SE it's
actually verses 20- 49 I figure this
will take 3
hours but that's not we're doing we're
going to skip over it so but I want to
make the point though and then I'm going
to summarize this because it just would
take too
long and that is Luke 62-49 is the
parallel with Matthew 56 and 7 this is
the sermon all over again now that
doesn't mean it was The Sermon on the
Mount of Matthew 56 and 7 it just means
it's the same basic stuff that he taught
in Matthew 56 and 7 he's teaching right
here okay that's all I mean I'm not
saying I bet he you know just being a
preacher I'm telling you I preached the
same sermon in more than one place okay
I'm just saying he might have preached
the same thing over and over and over
and over and over again I don't know I
wasn't there I'm just telling you that
it doesn't have to be a different
occasion or the same occasion so as
apprentices what should be our takeaway
from looking at Matthew 567 looking at
Luke 6: 20-49
what did those guys up close and
personal hear what what were they
getting what were those apprentices
those disciples those truly consecrated
to God that had put their name at the
bottom of the piece of paper and said
fill it in Jesus what were they hearing
what were they Hearing in his
declarations and Jesus apprentices see
him more closely how because they saw
him
day and night
and they looked at him very closely they
didn't just hear the
sermon they were with him day and night
they saw what Jesus did and they saw
what Jesus said day and night kind of
like being at church on Sunday
night whenever I can be with him right I
just want to be with him whenever that
is and Jesus's Apprentice is also also
see that Jesus taught very few
things that had not already been taught
in the Old
Testament it was just stuff they didn't
get you know if you're bound up into law
and you don't see that God is going
somewhere with it sometimes you can get
so caught up in the rules that you don't
actually know who the ruler
is and you don't understand his heart
and what he's trying to do
so there were things taught by Jesus
that were different but not much like
for example he said I knew commandment I
give to
you that you love one another well the
Old Testament was full of that
teaching that's not
new it said over and over again so
what's new about that he added something
as I've loved you I'm going to a cross
for you I'm going to die for you I want
you to love each other like I love
you that's different and they had not
felt that way they were kind of they
wanted to love with what's the bare
minimum I get by with do I have to shake
his hand you know what's the bare
minimum do I have to be friendly do I
have to do I have to do I have
to bare
minimum that's a big difference if you
realize it just for a moment that it was
a changed heart something going on the
inside not just something on the
outside and so Jesus Apprentice uh they
see though how he approached the
teachings in the Old Testament and
suddenly they begin to see the meaning
behind it but they also see more clearly
that Sermon on the Mount that sermon on
Mount I've preached on this so I won't
go into this in detail but basically
it's the they you and who uh if you if
you read The Sermon on the Mount Matthew
56 and 7 you see they next sections on
who I mean you and then the last
sections on who and if you pay attention
it basically means that the uh the
things we call uh the first few things
he teaches you know blessed are the
blessed are the you remember all of that
when he does that in Matthew he uses the
word they because most of them did not
do those things and most of them did not
think it was good to be that way and
hair culture just like our culture even
to this day shuns
humility being proud is a good thing in
our culture but not in the Bible and you
need to be careful how you use that term
it's not bad to feel good about somebody
or even feel good about yourself but
when you start looking down at others
because you're so much better than them
we got a
problem and then but in this text the
they is the youo so if you read this
read to the end you'll see that first
sections on the Yoo which is the day so
so there were some of them that did it
were some of them who followed what it
says in verses 23 but most of them
didn't that's why he says
youo otherwise he'd said you but he says
youo so some of them weren't living that
way and then it's you and then who so
his Sermon on the Mount is not about the
externals he's trying to suggest yeah do
the externals but get the internals
right because if all you get the is the
externals right and you don't get your
heart straight you aren't doing it you
haven't even done it you understand that
if you if you do what the Lord says and
you do not have the heart for it you
haven't done what the Lord says that's
the reason Matthew chapter 7:21 says
what it says you call me Lord Lord and
do not the things which I say wait a
second I did the things he said no
because your heart wasn't in it so your
heart must be in it otherwise you didn't
do and so Jesus is the word of God call
that and so these disciples and I won't
go any further on this point but they
had a view of Jesus
declarations and they began to get it
are
you it's not enough just to do the
externals are you getting it let's hope
so as apprentices we need to do more
than just do the externals because you
can put on a good show for me or I can
put on a good show for you but do you
love him with all your heart soul man
find his drink so that's if you were an
apprentice in his day and now looking
back Apprentice is viewing closely Jesus
would see the defense of people that
needed to be shown a little bit of Mercy
you see the Defiance against people that
no matter what you do they're not going
to like you you got to see the disciples
that he picked they're you this wild
crazy group and then the Declarations
and how straightforward it acts it was
are you ready to be a
Christian are you ready to be a follower
are you ready to be a disciple are you
ready to be an apprentice honestly I'm
going to answer for me I don't know if
I'm ready
yet I want to
be some want you to think that they are
dedicated followers and they've got it
all worked
out but they seek their own best
interest
not the kingdom in the Kingdom's best
interest Thomas Reeves is a historian
and a professor at the University of
Wisconsin Parkside said this
Christianity in modern America is in
large part an uous that means
inoffensive it tends to be easy upbeat
convenient and
compatible it does not require
self-sacrifice discipline humility or
otherworldly Outlook a Zeal for Souls a
fear as well as a love of God doesn't
require any of
that adore I'm going to try to say this
guy's name I've always struggled with
this man's name and I've known this
story for a very long time his name is
Don Iran
Donan it's a d o n i r a m you tell me
how to pronounce it later those of you
who are really good with that sort of
thinking know that I can't speak English
because I'm from Alabama but
anyway a donam uh Judson he was planning
to be a missionary to Burma that's east
of India and he wanted to go in 1810
that's a little while
ago he wanted to be a missionary there
and he knew when he was going there were
no known Christians in Burma think about
that none nobody even of any sort
zero there were no scriptures in their
language
zero and he wished to marry an
hasseltine I can say that it's a weird
name but anyway her name was Anne
HL but he wanted to be clear with her
parents that what was about to happen if
if they allowed an hazle time to marry
this Judson guy
she would move with him to
Burma and because you go on a Sailing
Boat and because they'd have no money
because it's Mission work you couldn't
fax money
through likely they would never see them
again and so he wrote asking permission
to marry their daughter and take their
daughter away and I have the letter that
he wrote those parents listen to it
I must ask whether you can consent to
part with your daughter early next
spring to see her no more in this
world whether you can consent to her
departure and her subjection to the
hardships and sufferings of a missionary
life sorry whether you can consent to
her exposure to the dangers of the ocean
to the Fatal influence of the Southern
Climate of India to every kind of want
and
distress to
degradation
insult
persecution and perhaps even a violent
death can you consent to all this for
the sake of him who left his Heavenly
home and died for her and for
you for the sake of perishing
Immortal
Souls for the sake of Zion and the glory
of God can you consent to all this in
Hope of soon meeting your daughter in
the world of Glory with the crown of
righteousness brighten with the
acclamation of Praise which shall redown
to her savior from Heathen saved through
her
means from Eternal woe and
despair aon's parents
responded it's her
decision she went off and prayed about
it for
months and then a few months later she
finally said
yes donam and an married February
1812 and set sale for
Burma an died of a disease 14 years
later never having seen her her parents
or family
again the donin's goal was to plant one
church
maybe and maybe have a hundred members
before he
died he labored on after an's death by
himself 26 more
years he was there 40 years in Burma and
he died and remember His Hope was maybe
one church with a 100
people he managed to start 100 churches
and there were 8,000 that called
themselves Believers by the time he
died you know maybe all we can do is
allow God's grace to work in
us and see what he
does giving up the image and the goals
that we have for
ourselves and taking up the image and
the goals he has for us to be an
apprentice is to give up control to give
up piece of paper with your name at the
bottom and no prerequisites to seek his
authority and his rule over my
will to give our lives to do whatever it
takes whether it's to hear believe
repent confess and be baptize or
whatever else he would require of me are
you willing to do that because
honestly that girl to most people would
have sounded like a fool to go with that
man
in our
culture back when I was uh 29 or 30 I
heard this song and I know you want me
to sing it but I'm just going to read it
Michael Card some of you may know who
Michael card is I see him as a sheer
Genius in songwriting of Christian he's
gotten old now he's as old as me or
older and uh he wrote
this and it speaks to this point it
seems I've imagined him all of my life
as the wisest of all of mankind but if
God's holy Wisdom is foolish to men he
must have seemed out of his mind for
even his family said he was mad and the
priests set a demons to blame but God in
the form of this Angry Young Man could
not have seemed perfectly sane when we
in our foolishness thought we were wise
he played the fool and he opened our
eyes when we in our weakness believed we
were strong he became helpless to show
we were wrong and so we follow God's Own
fool for only the foolish can tell
believe the
unbelievable and come be a fool as well
so come lose your life for a carpenter
son for a Madman who died for a
dream and you'll have the Faith his
first followers had and you'll feel the
weight of the beam so surrender the
hunger to say you must know and have the
courage to say I believe for the power
of paradox opens your eyes and blinds
those who say they could see when we in
our foolishness thought we were wise he
played the fool and he opened our eyes
when we and our weakness believe we were
strong he became helpless to show we
were wrong and so we follow God's Own
fool for only the foolish can tell so
believe the unbelievable and come be a
fool as well so we follow God's Own fool
for only the foolish can
tell believe the unbelievable and come
be a fool as well so to be an
apprentice you got to kind of be mad
like a mad
man kind of crazy
be a
fool because that's what they thought
had a
demon something's wrong with him but
there was nothing wrong with him he's
the only one who ever got it right and
he died for your sins and you could
become one of his apprentices if you
would repent of your sins confess the
name of Christ and be baptized tonight
but I'm talking to a group of people
that likely have done that but if you
ever actually become his Apprentice just
because you were baptized
I'm not sure I have
yet but I want to be you want to
be amen
