working. Uh, good to be with you this
week. Uh, it's been a week. It's been a
very, very long week, but we had the
Mount Dora dinner last night. Uh, which
was a success there. We have Andy Bonner
with us today. He's representing uh,
Mount Dora. So, uh, he stayed with us
this weekend. It was good to have Andy,
get to know him. But if you want to get
to know more about Mount Dora, please
see Andy. Andy, raise your hand. There
he is. Yeah, everyone look at Andy.
There he is. Um, but yeah, what a good
good cause and uh really something we
can support. Thank you,
Andy. Rex is away. Uh, finally he gets
to have a bit of a vacation. I'm hoping
he's switched his phone off and uh he's
not watching
today. He follows
everything, but uh no, I hope he has a
good time. So, it's our graduation uh
week where uh we send our kids off and
so it's my task to uh say something nice
to them and send them on their
way. The uh let's grab this. So, I want
to say first congratulations to
graduates. Claire Key over here,
Isabella
Lenton, Meline Israel, she is known as
Maddie as well. And then I've got Noah
Perpich, also known as
Goldilocks, 50 Sweetie Princess. Yeah.
Um, Noah and I have relationship. And I
went to his dad and I said, "Listen, I
have a a photo of Noah in a dress.
Should I do it?" And, uh, his dad was
like, "Do
it." But I won't. Um, what happens at
youth camp stays at youth camp, right,
Noah? No, I'm really proud of you guys.
and I I wish you well. But this lesson
is tailored for you. There are points
that I want to make out for you guys
that hopefully that you can take and uh
when you're going through tough times,
just remember who you really truly
belong to. So before we get into the
lesson, let's have a
pray. Our father God, Lord, uh you are
the mighty wonderful God. Uh we're just
so uh grateful, Father, that you've
chosen us, that you are willing to be
patient with us. And Father, that you
guide us and lead us and and teach us.
Father, we uh we just love you so much.
Uh today, Father, we offer up these four
four individuals who've
uh passed a milestone and they now have
their their lives to look forward to,
Father, and and decisions to make and
and they're a little bit more
independent, Father. But we just pray
that you will guide them. We know how
difficult it can be. We know how
dangerous it can be. And so, Father, we
beg you, please put your guiding hand
over them uh and and be with them
always. And we know you are. Father,
you've promised that to us. But, Father,
let them know and and
comfort. Father, we just you and we
thank you so much for Jesus. It's his
name we pray.
Amen. All good.
So, are you
happy? There's a little photo of my son.
So, he's uh he's got this little car
that his mother-in-law, my mother-in-law
and father-in-law bought for him, and he
loves to go through the sprinklers in
the neighborhood. And I call it the car
wash, and he loves it. And he gets wet.
And he's so happy in that moment. He's
so happy, right? And I I just love that
photo because he's just come out of the
car
wash and he's so
happy. Rex and I, we went for a lunch
not so long ago and uh he he owed me a
lunch. I I managed to achieve something
that I've been working and he promised
me he's like, "I'll buy you lunch if you
get there." So I got there and he takes
me to lunch and we're sitting there and
in true Rex style he just goes, "Are you
happy?" Catches me on my back foot.
Right. And we we often have these these
uh conversations and theological
discussions and debates and
philosophical discussions. And I love I
love working next door because I'll be
reading my Bible and I'm angry with
something or I don't understand
something. I can just hit the wall. Bye.
Uh what does this mean? And then he just
says, "I'm not in my
office." But it's really good to have
Rex there and I can, you know, iron
sharpens iron and it's it's really been
helpful. But he says to me, "Are you
happy?" and uh I've got a mouth full of
food and I just start giggling. I'm
like, "Oh, here we go." But it's such a
such an interesting question. And yes,
in moments I am happy. The the moment
there with Callum, yeah, that's cool,
but that doesn't always sustain. That
doesn't always hold. And there's times
when things aren't going well and you
got to pay the bills and you're
struggling here and and it's it's it's
been hard for someone that you love
and and so happiness is kind of moments,
right? It's this moment we have and then
that's that's gone. And then we find
another moment and then we can reflect
and and think about this moment and
uh we we we get chatting and chatting
and chatting and and this ultimately
leads to the two of us coming to the the
decision that the only thing that's
really grounded and consistent and
sustainable is joy. And there's a
difference, right? Happiness is moments,
guys. Joy is this foundational solid
rock that we have. And I think we so
often forget to fill our cup of joy and
make sure that one's that one's there.
You know what I mean? And so I want to
go through the the lesson today for our
graduates especially just in how to find
joy, where we found joy and how joy
works. All right. So Matthew chapter 6
19-21. Thank you Ray for reading. Um, do
not store up your uh do not store up
treasures for yourselves. Uh, sorry, do
not store up for yourselves treasures on
earth where moths and I chose vermin
because that's the NIV version. I just
like that where vermin destroy. Such a
such a illustrative way of destroying
something. And where thieves break in
and steal, but store up for yourselves
treasures on heaven, where moths and
vermin do not destroy, and where thieves
do not break in and steal. For where
your treasure is, there your heart will
be
also. Isn't that so
true? If I am so focused on money, guess
what I'm thinking about the whole time?
It's money. That's where my heart is
now. If I'm focused on things, that's
where my heart is.
Right? Where your where your treasure
is, there your heart will be also. So,
where do I want my heart to go? Where is
it sustained? Where is it eternal? I
should put my treasure there. Right?
Makes sense. So, follow with me today.
Um, I'm going to read a lot of
scripture. Matthew 6, chapter 1:18. And,
and I want to go back because I believe
that when we read a
scripture, it's surrounded by other
scriptures that kind of explain the one
we're trying to talk about and trying to
understand, right? And so, we read in
context. Maybe that's a lesson within
the lesson. Read in context. Don't just
don't just read one verse. Go and read
all around it. Um I'm not as crazy as
Rex. He goes and reads it backwards and
then he reads the the words backwards.
And I admire him for doing that. I don't
have the time, but context. Get the
context. So we go to Matthew chapter uh
6 verse one. Let's go have a look.
It says, "Be careful to practice your
righteousness in front of others to be
seen by them. If you do, you will have
no reward from your father in heaven."
There's that reward
again. So when you give to the needy, do
not announce it with trumpets as the
hypocrites do in the synagogues and on
the streets to be honored by others.
Truly, I tell you, they have received
their reward in full. But when you give
to the needy, do not let your left hand
know what your right hand is
doing, so that your giving may be in
secret. Then your father who sees what
is done in secret will reward you. And
so at first glance, that little
paragraph, I go, "Yeah, goodness. I got
to be good. Yeah, do do nice things for
people." There's more to that. I'm going
to come back to it. The next one, um, it
gets into prayer.
gets into prayer and it says verse 5,
"And when you pray, do not be like the
hypocrites, for they love to pray
standing in the synagogues and on the
street corners to be seen by others.
Truly I tell you, they have received
their reward in full." But when you
pray, go into your room, close the door,
and pray to your father who is unseen.
Then your father who sees what is done
in secret will reward
you. And when you pray, do not keep on
babbling like pagans, for they think
they will be heard because of their many
words. Do not be like them, for your
father knows what you need before you
ask him. I love that,
right? This then is how you should pray.
And Jesus goes on and let's read it. He
says, "Our Father in heaven, hallowed be
your name. Thy kingdom come, your will
be done on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread, and
forgive us our debts as we also have
forgiven our debtors, and lead us not
into temptation, but deliver us from the
evil one. For if you forgive other
people when they sin against you, your
heavenly father will also forgive you.
But if you do not forgive others their
sins, your father will not forgive your
sins. Right? So Jesus is teaching
prayer. And at first glance, I look at
it, I go, "Cool. I'm I'm supposed to
pray. I have to pray. It's simple, but
there's more to it. I'm going to come
back. Point three there.
Fasting. Verse 16. When you
fast, do not look somber as the
hypocrites do. For they disfigure their
faces to show others they are fasting.
Truly, I tell you, they have received
their reward in full. There's that
reward again.
But when you fast, put oil on your head
and wash your face, so that it'll not be
obvious to others that you are fasting.
But only to your father who is unseen.
And your father who sees what is done in
secret will reward you. This reward,
this reward, this reward. And then Jesus
goes on to say, "Store up your treasures
in heaven." Right? So is that a
coincidence? No. I don't believe in
coincidences.
If anything, a coincidence, the
definition is God's way of remaining
anonymous, right? I don't believe in
coincidence. I don't believe God's word
is just scrambled words and just we'll
put that there. I believe it's
intelligently designed, right? So God's
showing us something here. So yeah, I
look at that in fasting and if you've
ever fasted before, it is
miserable.
Sorry.
Sorry. Sorry. Chris, can you get my
water?
Sorry,
guys. I don't know what just
happened.
Sorry. All right. Yep. I'm not
dying. Okay. Sorry. Got too excited. So,
fasting, right, is really really
difficult. And when you you're you're
not eating, it hurts, man. But I tell
you what, when you're doing it
deliberately and you're craving food for
the first couple days, it's
miserable. But while you crave that
food, you remember what you're doing.
And I find myself all we're doing, all I
start doing is thinking about God,
right? All I'm focused on is
God. And at some point, it's about the
third day when things are kind of
actually not so bad. and you really do
feast on God's word. And it's it's it's
a wonderful thing to do. It's miserable.
It's
hard. But the scripture is saying when
you do that, don't tell
anyone. And the scripture before that
says, "Hey, when you pray, do it in
secret." And the scripture before that
says, "Hey, when you do good, when you
give to the
needy." And so what I find the lesson
here leading into this treasure, this
reward at point number four, this
private relationship with your
Lord. Yeah, pray. Absolutely. Have
communication with God. Give to the
needy. Yes, that's good
stuff. Fast. Yes, it's
good. But have a relationship. Have an
intimate relationship with
God. And I love that because you know
what? I have a relationship with my my
dad that my my sister doesn't
have, right? And I love what I have with
my father and my sister loves or she has
with my father and I have relationship
with all of you that are different and I
love that and I treasure that. It's a
reward. I love it. But we take time and
we we um we have intention behind that
that I sit down and I I I think about my
my Lord and Savior. I pray to him. I
communicate with him. I fast and I do
what he wants me to do, which is
goodness. And so you you fall in love
with God. When when you come to God that
it's almost sometimes you come in fear
and then and then you kind of get to
know him. You're like, "Well, you know,
I I like what he what he what he stands
for." And then you you get to a point
where you fall in love with him, that
all you want is him. And you know what?
He can make up a new rule and I'll be
like, "Yeah, yeah, that that that's
true. I wouldn't even have to think
about it. I trust him and I love him so
much. I have such a relationship with
him that if he made up a new rule, I'd
be like, "Yeah, cuz that's probably what
should happen." And so, you fall in love
with him. You have this intimate
relationship with him,
guys. And
so you find your treasure in that. So
seek, seek him. Uh second point, I got
four points today. So you'll know when
we're almost
done. I label this one worship. I'll get
to the picture now because that picture
is kind of fun. Yeah, I'll explain that.
But let's go to uh chapter 6 verse 22 to
34. So now we're on the other side of
the
treasure and it says the eye is the lamp
of the
body. If your eyes are
healthy, your whole body will be full of
light. But if your eyes are
unhealthy, your whole body will be full
of
darkness. Now I know you
know what that feels like. None of us
are innocent here.
But if your eyes are unhealthy, your
whole body will be full of darkness. If
then the light within you is darkness,
how great is that
darkness. And so the first point I I put
there that
light for you graduates, look for the
light. Um what goes in is what's going
to come out, right? But also look, my my
garage door is just broken this week.
garage door and I the light normally
comes on when you walk in. It's got that
little sensor and and I always take that
I've taken it for granted and I walk in
this morning. I'm carrying calum Bibles
and books
and and the light doesn't come on and
like and I can't see what I'm doing,
right? I got no direction and I'm like,
"Good luck, Callum." And I got no way of
of seeing. So, I got to open the doors.
I got to open the big door. Oh my god, I
can see again. Right now, I can put
Callum in the car
safely. Find the light. Don't walk in
the darkness. Where you
going? You have no direction. There's no
compass in the
darkness. And then let's go to verse
24. No one can serve two masters. Either
you will hate the one and love the other
or you will be devoted to the one and
despise the other. You cannot serve both
God and money.
Amen. You have to take a stand. You have
to choose. You cannot serve two people
who have two completely opposing
ideas. One says, "Let's create." The
other one says, "Let's
destroy." Well, how do you compromise on
that? Well, okay. we'll do we'll destroy
a little bit and yeah we'll create a
little bit. No, it doesn't work. You
have to take a stand. You have to
choose. Is it
God who's eternal and trustworthy
and
consistent or is it money and things
that are fleeting? Ecclesiastes. Oh, in
vain we chase those things, right? And
we work and we die and we we gather and
we die.
So yeah, by all means go chase that
going to get you
nowhere.
Choose. And then the last uh verse in
this this point
uh this one I I struggle with. I'll be
honest personally I do not know how
people achieve this. But verse 25,
therefore I tell you do not worry about
your life, what you eat or drink or
about your body, what you will wear. Is
not life more than food and the body
more than clothes? Look at the birds of
the air. They do not sow or reap or
store away in barns and yet your
heavenly father feeds them. Are you more
valuable than they? Can any one of you
by worrying add a single hour to your
life? And why do you worry about
clothes? See how the flowers of the
field grow? They do not labor or spin.
Did I tell you that not even Solomon in
all his splendor was dressed like one of
the these? If that is how God clothe the
grass of the
fields which is here today and tomorrow
is thrown into the fire, will he not
much more clothe you? You of little
faith. So do not worry, saying, "What
shall we eat or what shall we drink or
what shall we wear?" For the pagans run
after these things, and your heavenly
father knows that you need them. But
seek first his kingdom and his
righteousness, and all these things will
be given to you as well. Therefore, do
not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow
will worry about itself. Each day has
its own enough trouble of its
own. Such a difficult scripture,
right? So, what's my point on
this? I summarize this in to
worship, having the light, focusing on
God, just like Steven, right? just
focusing on
God. Um, choosing who I'm going to obey
and not having
distractions, not worrying about stuff.
When you worry, I'm not my heart's my
heart's in the
worry. I'm not I'm not thinking about
God anymore. And you sit I do too. We
sit here and I'm thinking about, oh,
what are we going to do today? And well,
you know, I got to get this done. I got
to do that. And we should be here
worshiping God, but my heart is
somewhere else.
So that
picture um Matthew 2:20
2-11 the word proano comes up it's the
Greek word for worship and pro to prost
prostrate yourself and cano to
kiss so that is the Iskan temple in
Bangalore India and uh I was in India
and we got in a tuk tuk my friend and I
we were on a traveling sports team and
we wanted to get out we had some
downtime. I said, "Let's just go and
explore." And I said to the tuk tuk
driver, "Hey, just just take us to
something in India, something that is
Indian." He takes us to the Iscon
Temple. I'm like, "All right, here we
go." And we go in and of course I look a
little bit different in India. And so,
everyone was very hospitable. And they
were like, "Come on in." And they take
me to their temple. and not just to
their temple because there's like a
barrier that stops people from going up
to their idol. They're like, "Come on
in, Keegan." And they take me all the
way up to the aisle, right? And they're
explaining stuff to me. And uh it was an
experience. But where I'm going with
this
pro, I'm standing by this idol down this
tunnel in the first the first temple,
which is kind of bottom right of the
picture. And I look back behind the
barrier and I'm going to do it. But
there's a guy
here like
this. And I just love this because
there's no
distraction, right? And he's on his
belly kissing the ground before his
idol. And we can't even get on our knees
for our God.
And that just that just really stuck
with me like these guys are dedicated.
And I love that idea that you on the
ground because I am worshiping God. I've
made this decision. It's about you. And
my head is down and I'm not
distracted. I'm not worrying about
anything else. This is about
you. And
I'm That's where the light is. And so
he's prostrated on the ground and I'm
standing there and I'm like, whoa, I'm a
Christian and I've never done
that.
So I promise you, go home, close the
door, lie down like that, and pray. Fast
and pray. I promise you there's nothing
else you will be thinking about than
God. Worship him. Graduates, worship
him.
Third point, others. 1 Thessalonians
2:13, I love this. But brothers and
sisters, when we were orphaned, by being
separated from you for a short time in
person, Paul writing, "Not in thought,
out of our intense longing, we made
every effort to see
you. For we wanted to come to you.
Certainly I
Paul but Satan blocked our
way for what is our
hope for the crown in which we will
glory in the presence of our Lord Jesus
when he comes. Is it not
you? Let me read again. For what is our
hope, our joy, or the crown in which we
will glory in the presence of our Lord
Jesus when he comes? Is it not you?
Indeed,
you
enjoy. Now, there's there's a couple
things I love there. Firstly, Satan,
Paul's saying, "Hey, Satan stopped us
from coming to you." And I wonder if
Satan was like, "Got him." But I love
this because Satan stopped him because
now we have a letter to
read. You hear what I'm saying? Like,
did Satan really win?
No. I love I love how God wins in these
things, right? So Paul's like, "Well,
Satan stopped us." Well, I'm glad Satan
stopped you cuz I get to read that
letter 2,000 something years later.
Awesome. But what Paul's saying there is
you have you're our joy. You're our
glory, our hope. It's about you as well.
It's about others. It's about our church
family. What we have here is so
important, guys. We come every Sunday
and I know we go to church. Some of us
like I know some of my graduates as
well, I don't want to be here. I know
you guys. I see some of them
smiling. But what you have here is
treasure. You have joy here. And I know
church can be frustrating. I get it.
It's
hard, but it's
wonderful. I obviously have family that
aren't Christians, and
I and I've had a conversation with one
of my cousins who she's not a Christian,
but she was angry with me one day
because her argument was, "Well, we're
blood and so you have to you have to
take my side." And I I I hate that
saying. Blood means nothing. I choose my
family. And this is my family. You are
all my family. And I have joy in
that. It's not about blood. It's about
Jesus's blood. Yes. Not our blood. It's
not power in our blood.
Jesus. Uh what's the other?
Oh, our spouse, our
children. So, this thing that I'm doing
now, we I've been trying to teach Callum
how to pray. Cool. So, my little
one-year-old now, we sit him down. I
say, "Calum, time to pray." And he goes,
and he watches. And at the end, he goes,
"Amen. Amen." That's his that's his
amen, right? And it's good. I want him
to I want to invest this time in Callum
because he is my treasure.
And I want to see him come to our Lord.
I want to see him love Jesus more than
he loves me. Right? Because then I know
I'll be standing in heaven waiting for
him one
day. My treasure. Right? So the funny
part of that story is I've taught him
how to pray and it's kind of cool. But
when my dog was a puppy, I taught my dog
that he only eats after we pray. I know
it's kind of weird, but I pray and then
Bailey's like he waits and and unless I
say in Jesus' name, amen, he doesn't
move. And then I say that and he
eats. So now I've got this situation
where I'm praying with Callum and then
Baileyy's like, "Oh, dude, come
on." And then the opposite happens when
I'm feeding Bailey. I turned around the
other day and Callum's on the kitchen
floor praying with us. It was kind of
cool. But but invest time in your
family, your spouse, and in those you
love. I want him to know Jesus. I want
him to love Jesus more than he uh than
he loves me. Right? our
spouses.
Um, if you selflessly serve your spouse
with their best interests in mind,
ultimately harbor in their heart the
most positive possible view of
you. That's a
treasure. Spend time with those people,
with others, so that you have that
treasure.
There may even be a double reward here.
I know we I can't even comprehend
heaven. Let me be honest. I don't really
truly understand
this, but there's something to this
storing up treasures in heaven.
Revelation 22, Jesus says he's coming
and he's bringing rewards. And so maybe
there's rewards coming. And he also
promises the apostles that there'll be
12 seats and you'll you'll have seats in
the judgment. So maybe that's a reward.
I I don't know.
But I know right now if the kingdom of
heaven is here as
well, surely I can tap into that
treasury, which I do every day. I spend
I spend time investing in my sp my wife
and my kid and and I get so much joy out
of
that because we have a great
relationship because we spend time and
we work together,
right? What a treasure.
So I I store up my treasures in heaven
and I get the dividends of this man. I I
I get to enjoy the I enjoy it
now. And then finally
you Philippians 2:5 and 8 says in your
relationships with one another have the
same
mindset sorry as Christ Jesus who being
in very
nature God did not consider equality
with God something to be used in his own
advantage rather he made himself
nothing graduates he made himself
nothing. By taking the very nature of a
servant, being made in the human
likeness, and being found in the
appearance as a man, he humbled himself
by becoming obedient to death, even
death on a cross. And then it says,
"Therefore, God exalted him." Graduates,
if you want something, if you want to
make a name for yourself, become
nothing. Yeah. Said, "Become like
water." What's that Bruce Lee or
something? Become nothing. Empty
yourself.
Worship God. Praise him. Follow
him. In Matthew 20:16, it says, "So the
last will be first and the first will be
last." Matthew 20 26-28, "Not so with
you. Instead, whoever wants to become
great among you must be your servant.
And whoever wants to be first must be
your slave, just as the son of man did
not come to be served, but to serve and
give his life as a ramp for
many. So point one there, conduct
yourself impeccably before God, and
you'll develop a storehouse of
reputational treasure that can withstand
all catastrophe.
yourself
impeccably. Second point, your booze
mean nothing to me. I have seen what you
people cheer
for. There's a confidence in that. When
I've conducted myself well, when I'm
worshiping God, when I've got this
right, there's a confidence there that
when people persecute me, when they boo
me, when they make fun of
me, your booze mean nothing to me. I've
seen what you cheer for. I love that
saying. Have confidence. You will be
persecuted if you go down this road of
following
God. But there's a confidence there.
There's a piece there that I cannot
explain,
but I can stand against a lot of things.
And finally,
I'm got a bit of a generation that is
wakes up off the pillow like, "How
should I be a victim today?"
Right? Don't be a
victim. The real victim here is
Jesus. You think about it. He's the only
innocent one in this whole thing. He's
the true victim. And I know life's going
to be difficult. I know there are times
when people are going to persecute you
and you're going to feel like this. But
I want you to remember Jesus went to the
cross innocently. Did nothing wrong.
Didn't deserve it. Became the victim.
and the actual
victim to to save
you, to fix your life, to help
you. You're not the victim here. Keep
that in mind. Focus on him. So, finally,
conclusion.
Point number one,
seek, worship
him, serve others, and conduct yourself
impeccably. When you worship God, you
put Jesus first.
J, then others, then yourself last. What
does that spell, guys? Joy. Right?
There's your joy. It's not in things.
It's not in money. It's not
in Tik Tok or whatever this is.
It's
here. If you want true joy that lasts,
not fleeting moments of happiness, why
would you compromise? Yeah, happiness is
great, but it's fleeting. This joy is
sustaining. It brings peace. And so when
I am suffering, when I am going through
the toughest times in my life, it is
miserable. I am not
happy. But I'm at peace because I have
of my Lord. because I know what's
coming. I have hope and I can get
through that
day. Matthew 22:37, it says Jesus
replied, "Love the Lord your God with
all your heart and with all your soul
and with all your
mind and greatest commandment and the
second is like it. Love your neighbor as
yourself. All the law and prophets hang
on these two commandments." Isn't it
interesting that Jesus says, "Love God
first and then love others.
Joy. Luke 9:23. Then he said to them
all, "Whoever wants to be my disciple
must deny themselves and take up their
cross daily and follow
me. Deny
yourselves. Elevate yourself by becoming
nothing for
him." So
graduates, I wish you well. I I pray for
you. I I've loved you guys. I still love
you. If you are struggling, you have my
phone number. You have a to come back
to. You're going to be on your own for a
little bit. You're going to be
independent. You're going to do some
stupid
things. I I I I urge you to remember
this. If you truly want this joy in
life, please, please don't from God.
I know some of you sometimes think coach
is a little crazy. I get
it. But here's this crazy person
standing up here saying, "We love you so
much that we want you to have a good
life." Remember that. When you think
we're a little bit nuts
sometimes, the fact that we're speaking
out to you guys this way, there's love
there. That love comes from Jesus. that
love comes from
God. Find your
foundation. So I wish you well. Um
Isabella, Claire, Noah, Maddie,
uh bless you.
