there was a teacher that assigned her
students this assignment of want all of
you students to write an essay on some
great living personality that you really
like that's influenced you a lot and one
little girl wrote an essay on Jesus
Christ and she got the paper she read it
she says "Very good essay but I ask you
to write on a living person." and she
said "Oh he is
alive." Amen he is alive so the
resurrection is not an April fool's
joke it's a paradoxical truth that saves
us all i'm going to do this is going to
be very different this morning so you'll
have to bear with me a little bit but
you know just kind of setting the stage
unbelievers generally uh view Christian
beliefs through what I would call a a
negative lens uh they often uh lack
exposure to what real and genuine
Christianity is like uh they're not
around us who are trying to live it and
so their perspective of Christianity is
somewhat unfriendly a bit distant
culturally and perspectively
and they tend to come up with a
reductionistic
uh caricature and a stereotype of what
Christians are like they may have found
Christians to be unattractive
uh to be intolerant bigoted judgmental
hypocritical in their view and often uh
faith is um painted a bit with
superstition or delusion or as if we're
uneducated individuals and we do not
think in a proper way and so our
thoughts are irreconcilable with science
and contemporary views and ways of
thinking and living and such um
stereotypes that are
unfavorable are common in western
culture particularly it relates to
Christianity you will notice that most
other religions are left alone but our
religion because it challenges the way
of life in western culture is not
received the same way from a diehard uh
unbeliever to convert and become a
believer therefore comes at somewhat of
a social cost in the world we live in
today uh nearly onethird of unbelievers
who convert to being a believer report
negative responses and rejections from
their friends and their family they
experience it directly uh their new
faith is somewhat socially frowned upon
and embarrassing to them to some degree
and alienating from their former friends
one former unbeliever who now believes
in Christ wrote this he said 'We lost a
lot of friends honestly even then our
beliefs were very liberal and in some
sense more closely aligned with atheism
than with Christianity on all sorts of
issues but just saying we're going to go
to church this Sunday or Jesus is God
meant a lot of people hated us and
wouldn't even talk to us anymore because
of that it was difficult but even so
this person that wrote that said that
their newfound joy and peace in Christ
sustained them even though it was
difficult jeffrey is an example of that
he was an unbeliever they didn't believe
in the resurrection and he wrote this he
said he became an unbeliever after a
childhood tragedy where he lost two
brothers in a
houseire his deep pain fueled a hatred
against God and so for 20 years he
developed some strong arguments against
belief in the resurrection or in God and
when his wife became a Christian it only
angered him more and his anger grew
toward God but one evening his wife
called and asked him to pick her up from
the home in which she had been led to
Christ and so he went there to get her
expecting a heated exchange but rather
he received warm hospitality he felt
valued and it made him draw back over
and over again to meaningful
conversations with that same family and
over time he said his resistance melted
friendship and trust developed and
intellectual questions were answered
finally he lost his resistance to God
and found the peace and joy that had
long eluded him in life in Christ
so I want us to look at this morning
this is not a normal sermon i know
you're expecting that this morning but
that's not what you're going to get
today i want your reading glasses on i'm
going to make you read i want you to
look at the seven witnesses of the
resurrection this is not a sermon it's
not a reading contest either but I'm
going to read along with you josephus
who was a historian around 100 AD wrote
the following in antiquities
1863 now there was about this time Jesus
a wise man if it be lawful to call him a
man for he was a doer of wonderful works
a teacher of such men as received the
truth with pleasure he drew over to him
both many of the Jews many of the
Gentiles he was the Christ and when
Pilate at the suggestion of the
principal men amongst us had condemned
him to the cross those that loved him at
the first did not forsake him for he
appeared to them alive again the third
day as the divine prophets had foretold
these and 10,000 other wonderful things
concerning him and the tribe of
Christians so named from him are not
extinct at this day not only that
historian but this historian
uh Sutinius In section 16 on a chapter
on Neero about the lives of the Caesars
from that time period his remarks are
about Neero he says "Punishment was
inflicted on the Christians." This is in
Rome a class of men given to a new and
mischievous superstition that
superstition the resurrection of Christ
publius of uh of Tacitus who wrote in
the annals of Tacitus book 15 chapter 44
also from that time period wrote about
Nero's efforts to get rid of the
suspicion that he had ordered the fire
in Rome it was a big uh part of the
country covered up with really terrible
homes made of pieces of wood and mainly
Christians lived in there slaves and it
had burned and it was believed because a
lot of it came close to his uh house
that he had set the fire but nobody
really knows but here's what was written
by Tacitus
but all human efforts all the lavish
gifts did not banish the sinister belief
that the confflgration was the result of
an order that is by Nero consequently to
get rid of the report Nero fastened the
guilt and inflicted tortures on a class
hated called Christians by the populace
Christristus from whom the name had its
origin and they suffered the extreme
penalty during the reign of Tiberius at
the hands of one of the our procurators
Pontius Pilate and a most pernicious
superstition that is of the resurrection
thus check for the moment again broke
out not only in Judea the first source
of the evil but even in Rome where all
things hideous and shameful from every
part of the world find their center and
become popular accordingly an arrest was
first made of all who pleaded guilty and
upon their information an immense
multitude was convicted not so much of
the crime of firing the city as of
hatred against mankind that's what they
accuse Christians of but more than that
then there is the Roman governor Plenny
the Younger who wrote to the emper Traan
the early Christians would sing hymns to
Christ as to a god because he was still
alive so the first evidence is the
witness of historians who give great
evidence to the idea that the at least
the people definitely believed that
there had been a resurrection
number two the witness of the gospels
themselves mark an eyewitness says in
Mark 16:1 and verse 9 "Now when the
Sabbath was passed and pay attention to
this Mary that's a woman mary Magdalene
Mary the mother James that's a woman and
Salumi that's a woman brought spices
that they might come and anoint him."
That's significant now I'm coming to
that verse nine why women when he rose
early on the first day of the week he
appeared first to Mary Magdalene a woman
out of whom he had cast seven demons now
if you go through all the gospels
Matthew 28:1 uh Luke 24:1 and 10 and
then uh John I witness John uh John
20:es 1 and 2 and 11-18 you will find
that each of the gospels say women were
the first to see Jesus that's
significant for that time period it's
going to sound wrong for our time period
but for that time period it was
significant and so the claim that the
tomb was found
empty and decades of academic writing by
the smartest people in our culture
today say the evidence for the empty
tomb is unassalable you can't argue with
it the majority of all the scholars
living today that have studied this
subject says the tomb was empty why do
they say that the strongest piece of
evidence in favor of the
historicisticity of the empty tomb is
that it was reported by
women that may sound strange to you odd
for the low status of women in their
culture women had a low status then and
Josephus makes a point about that saying
the guy I was reading a while ago said
"Let not the testimony of women be
admitted on account of the levity and
the boldness of their sex." So they
weren't even allowed hardly to even
testify in a
trial why would women be the ones who
would be the first because that would be
the most unlikely thing to do if you're
pulling a
hoax and the most likely thing if it
were absolutely true for that
day jewish New Testament scholar Giza
Vermes writes this when every argument
has been considered and weighed the only
conclusion let me read get through that
the only conclusion acceptable to the
historian must be that the opinions of
the orthodox the liberal sympathizers
and the critical an uh agnostics alike
and even perhaps of the disciples
themselves are simply interpretations
the one discerning uh disconcerting fact
namely that the women who set out to pay
their last respects to Jesus found to
their constonation not a body but an
empty tomb now that's significant we'll
come back to the idea of the empty tomb
in just a moment but that women saw it
the in the gospels and that's recorded
in every gospel is one of the greatest
suggestions that the resurrection really
happened you may have not understood
that but in light of the way that women
were treated in that world and that to
be the first thing that said "Oh yes
that means this wasn't like any other
story." Number next number three the
witness of the tomb the tomb itself
let's go to the scriptures what it says
matthew 27
62-66 the chief priests and the
Pharisees gathered together to Pilate
saying "Sir we remember while he was
still alive how that deceiver a said
after three days I will rise therefore
command that the tomb be made secure
unto the third day lest his disciples
come by night and steal him away and say
the people to the people he has risen
from the dead so the last deception will
be worse than the first pilate said to
them you have a guard go your way make
it as secure as you know how i'm so
thrilled that they did this verse 66 so
they went and made the tomb secure
sealing the stone and setting a guard
okay folks that is a great thing that
happened right there the Jews insisted
that Jesus body had been stolen by the
disciples that was a claim that
apparently was still circulating even
until the 2n century and since it is
even referred to in Justin Martyr's
dialogue with Trifo so basically here's
what you need to gather from that this
accusation implies the Jewish leaders
knew the tomb was empty
okay now you'll understand why that's
critical in just a moment when I talk
about oshuaries but just bottom line
they would not have accused the
disciples of grave robbery if they knew
Jesus' body was still in that
tomb today skeptics do not simply
dismiss the empty tomb as a legend but
try to provide some alternative
explanation for it giving proof that it
was empty now here's the significance of
that if you don't understand it the
witness of the tomb gives evidence of
the resurrection because an empty tomb
was not possible in their day what
happened let me explain they let you rot
in those tombs see nobody ever rotted in
that tomb but they let you rot in those
tombs that's why they covered you with
all that cloth okay they let you rot
there and they covered you with the
spices to keep down the smell but they
let you rot there once you rotted they
collapsed you up and put you in a box
called an ouary and all of those from
that day are in an ashuary uh but it was
too soon for him to rot and be like that
and yet the tomb was empty that is a
great piece of evidence my friend that
is a witness that you can't go around
but more there's the witness of the
apostles the witness of the apostles in
Acts chapter 2 it says "But Peter
standing up with the 11." So there was
12 of them all right 12 men there raised
his voice and said to them "Men of Judea
and all you who dwell in Jerusalem,"
notice where they were "in Jerusalem let
this be known to you and heed my words
him being delivered by the deter
determined purpose and fornowledge of
God you have taken by lawless hands,"
talking about the Romans and having
crucified and put to death verse 24 whom
God raised up having loosed the pains of
death because it was not possible that
he should be held by it this was just
seven
weeks after Jesus' death the apostles
were standing up in the face of people
who had killed Jesus 7 weeks earlier in
that same town Jerusalem where Jesus had
been crucified look at the results of
that concept had he been live lying in a
tomb even for this length of time 7
weeks you'd pulled him out you would
have known his features you'd have known
his hair you'd have known his teeth
you'd have known his stature you would
have known his wounds there would have
been no doubt that that was Jesus laying
in that tomb but they didn't do that how
could a new Jewish Christian movement
survive if the authorities knew the
corpse of Jesus was just walking
distance away from where they're
speaking any skeptic who wanted to
refute the claims to the apostles could
have silenced them all by taking a short
stroll over here come over here let's
roll this back there he is but nobody
did that in fact no one claimed the
disciples had lied about the empty tomb
that's why they had to say they stole
the body away but again Gerd Ludman who
denies the historicity of the
resurrection nonetheless states this it
may be taken as historically certain
that Peter and the disciples had
experienced after Jesus' death in which
Jesus appeared to them as the risen
Christ now that's a man don't even
believe in that because why does he say
that because the apostles were risking
death in the face of all of this to
stand up and say that man you just
killed is the Lord well that would have
been
blasphemy they should have been kept and
then they risking it and by the way they
all ended up pretty much being killed
for something that would have been a lie
no they risk death for the
truth and then the witness of the
brother this is a strong witness here
maybe the strongest I've mentioned so
far the witness of the brother in
Matthew chapter 13:55 it says "Is this
not the carpenter's son is not his
mother called Mary and his brothers
James remember that name James you got a
little book in your Bible called James
after this man his brothers James Jo
Joseph Simon and Judas john 7:5 even his
brothers did not believe in him so up
until a certain point none of his family
other than Mary even believed anything
he was saying about himself which by the
way is normal if my brother started
saying he is the son of God I wouldn't
believe it either would you i would I
would be like you're crazy boy 1
Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 7 after
that he was seen by James so would that
change you oh didn't believe suddenly
your brother that you made fun of is
risen in Acts 1:14 the these all
continued with one accord in prayer and
supplication with the women and Mary the
mother of Jesus and with his brothers so
not just James but all the brothers
became believers all of a sudden
something changed here my friend and so
then there's this concept and it's uh I
don't never could pronounce that but
it's a complex how about I let you just
read it if true it makes accepting your
brother as God's son unlikely and if you
remember Sigman Freud he's the one who
kind of advocated this more than
anything else he talks about sibling
rivalry if he's right about that stems
from children's complete desire to have
parental love and have it exclusively
more for them and give you more
attention than your siblings viewing
siblings as rivalries in competition
actually flies in the face of this and
I'll give you an examples i'll give you
a few of them you heard of Cain and Abel
yeah sibling rivalry you heard of Joseph
and his 11 brothers yeah so sib that's a
real thing that's not make believe
there's issues if you've had two kids I
bet you you've seen them fight okay so
the idea of giving in to this idea that
a brother would suddenly come on the
scenes and become a preacher about his
brother being the son of God which he
did his brother had to have seen
something hadn't seen something
then there's the witness of the
persecutor the great persecutor in Acts
chapter 7:58 it says "They cast him out
of the city and stoned him." That is uh
Steven what we're talking about Steven
one of the first martyrs and the
witnesses laid down their clothes at the
feet of a young man named Saul as we
will note he was later called Paul in
Acts 8:es 1-3 it says that now Saul was
consenting to his death that is Stevens
at that time a great persecution arose
against the church which was at
Jerusalem the Jews were not happy about
what were happening and they were all
scattered throughout the region of Judea
and Samaria except the apostles they
hung on verse two and devout men carried
Steven to his burial and made great
lamentation over him and verse three as
for Saul he made habit of the church
entering every house and dragging off
men and women committing them to prison
he was merciless and Acts chapter 9:es
1-2 let's take a look at that and we'll
have to do that in a couple of sections
it says "Then Saul still breathing
threats and murders murders get that
word against the disciples of the Lord
went to the high priest and asked
letters for him to the synagogue of
Damascus so that if he found any over
there in Damascus who were of the way
that is believing in the way of Christ
whether men or women it didn't matter he
didn't care he might bring them bound to
Jerusalem." As he journeyed he came near
Damascus and suddenly a light
A light shone around him from
heaven and he fell to the ground and
heard a voice saying to him "Saul Saul
why are you persecuting me?" And he said
"Who are you Lord?" And the Lord said "I
am
Jesus whom you're persecuting it's hard
for you to kick against the
goats so he trembling and astonished
said,"Lord what would you have me to
do?" And the Lord said to him "Arise and
go into the city and you will be told
what you must do." Verse 20 says
"Immediately he preached the Christ in
the synagogues that he is the son of
God." Boy that's a shift there killing
people too he is not maybe he is the son
of God not will be but is not was but is
then all who heard were amazed and said
"Is this not he who destroyed those who
call on his name in Jerusalem and has
come here for that purpose so then he
might bring them bound to the chief
priests?" Verse 22 but Saul increased
all the more in strength and confounded
the Jews who dwelt in Damascus proving
that he that this Jesus is the Christ 1
Corinthians 15:8 then last of all he was
seen by me galatians 1 for you have
heard of my former conduct in Judaism
how I persecuted the church of God
beyond measure and tried to destroy it
but they were hearing only he who
formerly persecuted us now preaches the
faith which he once tried to destroy in
first Timothy Paul summarizes why this
happened verse 13 I was formerly a
persecutor but I obtained mercy because
I did it ignorantly in unbelief verse 14
and the grace of our Lord was exceeding
abundant with faith and love in Christ
Jesus for this reason I obtained mercy
that in me first Jesus Christ might show
all longsuffering as a pattern i'm a
pattern to those who are going to
believe in him for everlasting life now
Paul's testimony can be regarded as that
of a hostile witness in court one who
had no incentive to accept the
resurrection unless he himself had seen
him alive look at this his witness put
him at immediate immediate odds with the
Jewish leaders in every city that he had
been cohorts cohorts with in 2
Corinthians
11:24-25 it says that he was whipped he
was beaten and he was stoned for the
things he was doing what was the
motivation for making this radical
change this is an as unexpected if if
Richard Dawkins we all know who Richard
Dawkins is he's that atheist from Oxford
who doesn't believe in anything he
doesn't believe in God he doesn't
believe in the Bible he doesn't believe
any of that and suddenly and he tries to
prove that it's totally not true he
calls it the God delusion suddenly
announcing what if he announced that he
had seen Jesus and he was going to spend
the rest of his life preaching Jesus
that's what this is like after reading
his work you can't come away thinking
that this is a crazy man you know he
read wrote most of the New Testament but
was a complete reversal therefore anyone
who doubts the resurrection must prove a
plausible account of why this man Saul
who changed his name to Paul had such a
dramatic conversion and it in such a
short period of time so here's what you
have the witness of the persecutor is
evidence of the resurrection because he
completely and radically changed like
that how does that happen how does that
happen
the witness of the church that it has
survived until now that you are sitting
in a church
building on a Sunday morning after this
long been 2,000 years most movements I
don't know if you know this they they
die out one or two generations the ones
who start them you know die and usually
they just die off even some of the cults
among us that's the way they happen they
start it goes big everybody and then it
just dies you've probably seen it you
know it's true but this one has grown
and if you look at Christianity
worldwide look at these numbers for
people who believe in the resurrection
of Jesus there is 2.4 billion people on
the planet believe that Jesus rose from
the dead don't tell me this is a minor
belief this is 33 or 34% of the
population of the world believe Jesus
rose from the dead so when you start
saying "Oh this is going away nobody
believes that." That's not true it's not
even close to true 2.4
billion oh how did that happen when it
happened in a place where they were
trying to shut it
down our
existence is a
witness our existence that we're here at
all in
faith so there it is take a look at it
those things right there they're heavy
but there is a eighth
witness that's the seven there's an
eight and you know what that
is that's you
brother that's you
sister in your life your daily walk I've
seen God
move and you know it you know it's true
amen
you've seen it this is not something you
just read in a
book this is your experience you're a
witness of it and I'm telling you as the
eighth witness of the evidence of the
resurrection yours may be the most
powerful of all because you can affect a
soul you can affect a soul right now
that you know you can get to somebody
you can talk to somebody you can affect
somebody even now
interesting thing happened back in 1994
uh the Washington Monument y'all
remember the Washington Monument they
were renovating it in 1994 they were
spending uh $500,000 to renovate it they
took some of the Wayne's coating which
was marble off the bottom in some of the
hallways and they discovered that there
was graffiti behind it it's part of the
reason they put it up now you wouldn't
think that they there were people back
in the uh 1800s when this thing was set
up but there was graffiti underneath
there was pictures people had drawn on
the wall and then written on the wall
and a guy we don't know who he was named
BFB that's how he signs his name this is
what he wrote in your Washington
monument in the 1800s he wrote
"Whoever is the human instrument under
God in the conversion of one soul
erects a monument to his own memory more
lofty and enduring than
this." We should accept the strong
evidence it's
real it really can't be denied jesus
rose from the dead amen we sang a song a
minute ago i know that my redeemer lives
amen i know he lives and somebody says
"Well you can't know that you didn't see
Jesus rise from the dead." Okay let me
give you a parallel okay you love
somebody do they love you you know they
love you right you can't see in their
brain what are you talking about you
know they love you
yeah I know they love me but you you've
never seen one thought passing through
Well they've never seen one thought
passing through their brain either by
the way none of us have seen the
thoughts here's what happens your
experience with them you know don't you
you know they love you there's a
different way of knowing guess what i
know that my redeemer lives amen
i don't think it i don't hope it i don't
hope one day I'll be proved right i
don't need to be proved right if I were
to go away and blank out and you'd never
even see me again let me tell you
something i
knew and I know amen i know he's
alive you want to be right with him if
you've not been right with him we'd love
to help you any way we can come forward
if you need to but we're just glad
you're here and you know that your
redeemer lives god bless you
