it it it really is a joy to be here with
you all and uh I'm I'm excited uh that
Sher and I can enjoy this uh I I want to
say first of all that this is an amazing
facility you have and I know you have
several more phases to come but when
when I walk into this building I see
vision and uh a a body of Believers that
is how do we reach our community on
multiple
levels and uh I I'm I'm just so thankful
because that's that's what we are doing
and and constantly thinking about in
Africa and you know we've given the
Great
Commission uh method is left up to us
God says I've given you a brain
intelligence uh share my love uh you all
figure out in the culture you live in
how you going to share that and uh and
so I I see that here and I'm just so
thankful and we'll continue to pray for
for all that you do
domestically and certainly thankful for
all that you do globally and glad that
we can be part of that chapter you you
have helped
us uh um keep up our mission
momentum and uh we are very very
grateful when I when we leave here we
leave pumped up and uh we want you to
know that we certainly want you to
prosper to grow and to continue to
expand God's borders here in in the
United States of America we are
thankful so if if you were to come with
me to Southern
Africa I would want to take you to a
place that's uh after we finished um
most of our trip then when we get to the
end of it what we like to do with people
is take them out in some sort of
Wildlife Area I mean how can you come to
Africa and not see some Wildlife you
know so there is a place at the border
of South Africa and
Zimbabwe and um it is a
uh lot of ranches there but there's a
family that has an
orchard orange oranges you and Florida
can really
relate they have a thousand acres of
trees that are bearing right now and
they bringing another thousand online
and between May and August they will
ship 20,000 boxes of oranges a
day um except it's in a wildlife area
now I don't know how many thousands of
Acres they have but I mean they have a
large area but the elephants have found
out found the trees and they like the
oranges and so you know when you you
don't go up to an elephant and say shoo
you know you know get out of here no no
no
so they came up with this idea well
actually it's because of their land
they've got a mini
Canyon on their property and so the the
gr day oranges they'll they'll they'll
they they'll put in you know they'll
ship that out and then whatever's left
they'll they'll put in these wagons and
they'll pull to the C gr to the canyon
and unload it every
day and the elephants have decided you
know that's a good place to go and all
other
animals so they'll go dump that there
and and uh the baboons will get there
first the baboons come down there and
they they start eating and they they
have a good and you know what's amazing
about them they'll grab one orange and
one one orange and then one in their
mouth and they they're trying to get
away you know get up into the up into
the hills where they can enjoy it and
then they'll see another one and it's
frustrating because they don't want to
let go but they want that so so they
come first well you can go there you and
spend the
night and you can have have dinner there
and you can sit above the canyon and
while you eating you can watch the other
animals
eat and they come by the hundreds and
they are all kinds of antelope and
there's I think we counted almost 300
elephant that just came in that Canyon
and just ate oranges and it's just the
you know it's one of those things like
if you go to the Grand Canyon and you
take pictures and you come back and you
show somebody you know it just doesn't
do it justice you know you you you have
to be there so so anyway a little hook
for some of you to put some of you maybe
put a team together and come and join us
come and join us one here to see that
this year has been tremendous and um
before the end of this presentation I
want to show you where we're going but
uh um we we had over 1100 as as you can
see there immersed into Christ we now in
seven countries in and uh four new
churches planted can I just just uh stop
here for a minute and just say thank you
because when you think about what your
church is doing what your church family
year is doing just know that this is a
part of it okay you know your prayers
the help you've given on different
levels your financial assistance the
even even the special gifts Financial
gifts that have been given over and
above has just has just been amazing so
I just want you to know this is where we
are 103 new congregations in 17 years
and uh
uh February next month we we uh we begin
another New Year and and so so thankful
so thankful for that
so this is a new church we've already
planted this year in the first few days
uh new church in chanja Zambia now one
thing we don't do we don't raise money
for church buildings and we don't raise
money for preachers because if you did
that you wouldn't have much left so but
what we do number one if you drill a
well then they'll they can grow food
they can have clean water and they can
make bricks all whatever structures they
want to make this we don't have a well
here but we will soon and and so they've
made their structure their wooden frame
and they put up all the Savannah grass
the grasses you know and they they're
proud of their structure and so uh I
just you know just just want you to know
that uh with preachers we try to find
diligently try to find ways that they
can make a living for themselves in
Africa you know we've got a guy that
love photography and so we sent him on a
on a 3month course and gave him a camera
and now he's making a living we've got
guys with some animals that started with
cattle or started with goats you know um
there are there are a number of things
that we are we are doing with them and
uh chickens and either selling chickens
or having eggs and selling that and but
different ways that we can help them the
the the the
answer to
longterm uh uh for the ministers that we
are training and by the way it's it's up
to over, 1500 now that that that we are
training plus plus uh plus women as well
uh it's it's it's
uh it's the growth is there because
these men are not supported
necessarily uh by the states and I'm not
saying that that is necessarily a wrong
thing but what I am saying saying the
longevity is not there usually and they
left stranded after 10 years of
preaching or 20 years of preaching in a
church whose connection is with a
missionary and then the missionary
changes or passes on and then their
connection is lost and so we are we're
doing our best to to not let that happen
and I think it I think it's Bing where
well this is a great picture right
here this is in Zambia in an area called
chamba it's eastern Zambia
um three new churches will be planted in
that area but I want to tell you that
that is very significant because the man
that's holding that stick is a man who
is the chief in that area and and he
said he said to us he he's become a
Christian uh uh so he said to us I'm
giving you that land and we set our
Brethren some of our ministers they sat
there and the all the land behind them
100 acres is being given for a
school and so we just we just absolutely
rejoice in in what what's happening
there so let me just say this keep that
in mind go with me to Cape Town South
Africa because this is the East Ridge
Church of Christ and the East Ridge
Church of Christ you'll see on the left
there it says East Ridge Christian
Academy and they started with a primary
school and now they're heading into a
high school so we've got a we've got a
Christian High School in Cape
Town we've got we've got the potential
not the potential but in in if the Lord
terries then then we then then we will
build the school in Zambia okay then go
with me I just got back from Tanzania a
few months ago and uh when I preached in
uh as uh um Rex alluded to in Florence
Alabama one of the elders was Danny
smelson and his wife Nancy they he's a
medical doctor and she had a PhD in
nursing and they went and they opened a
clinic and a school in Tanzania so I was
there and spoke at the graduation they
about four years ahead of our school and
uh we got talking okay so here's
Tanzania here is Zambia here is South
Africa okay then you get to uh let me
just back up let me just back up then
you get to Zimbabwe our school and I'm
going to show it in in in a little while
okay now we
are uh working on an association of
Christian schools within our fellowship
from Tanzania all the way down but the
graduates of the school is going to come
to where we are because after our first
graduating class uh uh um which is in
November of this coming year then we
will have our first
University there and those graduates are
going to come to us now now Brethren I'm
saying telling you all this because we
don't want them to come to the United
States we want them to stay in Africa
because if they come to America they
won't go back and so we want them to
come but we want them to be able to to
develop and get the qualifications to
build a life for their family on a
middle inome level or above because the
church churches in Africa will not grow
if there's only $10 in the plate every
Sunday so I mean we are there to help
the poor and we do help the poor but
we've got to change the Dynamics of this
and so I just want you to know that this
is something that I have felt for a long
time and I'm so glad that I could that
we can be part of of of imp implementing
this so you know we have the mom project
the three boys are the same well there's
the young men those were the three boys
we started feeding and now they've grown
up so we have the mom project making
orphan meals uh you know you feed them
and and every time we feed them we
always feed them physical food I mean
these guys when they were SM you know
they smiling because they getting a meal
a day some of them were getting two
meals a day now before they got a meal
every two every two or three days and
when they came they were so gaunt you
know thin and you just saw them BL
blossoming we would also give them
spiritual food so all three of them are
now children of God they these young men
have given their lives to Christ and the
guy on the left Emanuel in the black
T-shirt he has done so well in school
that he's been accepted into medical
school and so here is an orphan who came
those years ago you know and and that's
him in the middle as as a boy you know
and now and by the way we have a clinic
that we are going to be expanding and
and wouldn't it be something if Emanuel
comes in back and be one of our doctors
there right wouldn't that be wonderful
but just wanted you to know and and some
of the the you know you have given
towards the mom project we appreciate it
so much this is some of our children one
that's a new sponsored kid right there
and that share you with two one two that
have grown up once they finish high
school then they go and they're on their
way and uh we just want to show you that
this was Christmas this was just a few
weeks ago got a new pair of shoes Santa
brought
them and and and and others so so we're
glad for that so I'm going to brag on my
family sh on Sher and I's family a
little bit here this is our three
grandsons Tristan is in the middle and
uh uh um Rex and he he just loves uh Rex
and Deb uh that they were so good to
good to him when he was there but you
know he called us uh Christmas a year
ago and he said granddaddy I I just have
gone to Africa all these years and it's
in my blood and I want to work with
partners for Africa full-time and so
he's he enrolled at Heritage Christian
University and and he's going there and
he's going to be hitting up our youth
program and we're thankful for that and
his brother is on the right of him and
and my son who works with us fulltime
that's his son Boston but these guys
come all the time so so when somebody
said to me Dorian you getting on in here
years and and and and and by the way one
of these boys came up to us came up to
me one day and said this was a few years
ago and they said granddaddy when you
die love the
tact when when when you die we want you
to know that that partners for Africa is
going to
continue and I I just said you know
don't rush me so so they are they are
working now but but what I'm saying if
the Lord terries I I'm so thankful for
you know for their desire um we kept 800
families alive through the drought that
we just had and do you know some of the
money that you have given on a one-time
basis has gone to help keep Christian
families alive the drought can be so so
bad I mean you talking about sometimes
nine months Without Rain that's unheard
of here in our country and and and I
mean these people they go to dry River
beds and start digging for water and um
so anyway that's them uh given food in
one of the villages
and that's the ladies if you'll notice
the lady has a the lady has a baby on
her back and she has a 20 lb bag of me
mil meal on her head and so without the
baby I Tred to walk with the mil on my
head and and and she's about to walk two
miles okay and it's not going to fall
but every two or three steps I took it
would fall and uh there was you know of
course people were laughing I mean it's
an art to it it's it's quite quite
amazing this is a well that we
dug uh 14 years ago still pumping water
and I want you to know that hundreds
have been immersed this is in the city
of bware where Deb and I grew up and uh
it's in a a church yard bware Central
Church and that church is just really
growing so fast but I just want you to
know some of you have helped with Wells
all our wells are still pumping and on
any given day there is over 400 20,000
people that come and get water from our
wells in southern
Africa now the wells are are strategic
well what do I mean by that we don't
just drill Wells at random we drill
Wells where either we're going to plant
a church or where there is a church and
then these people come and they want to
know who you are and they want you know
and then the conversations begin and you
get a chance to to share the good news
of Jesus Christ and we we are so
thankful so there's my my my son is in
the middle
uh you've seen a picture of Boston and
that's my son Lee and he handles all the
containers that we ship out and uh as
you can see we've uh We've shipped out
quite a bit of container 45 containers
12 to 14400 boxes on a container you can
do the math we are thankful to Walmart
seven countries have benefited from this
ministry And We Begin Again of course
continuing that we are just about to
load one by the way apologetics press
gave us 5,000 Bibles I I don't know if I
I know that there's probably many of you
that are familiar with apologetics press
but but their bibles are fantastic the
the the the helps in it but not only
that The Binding you know if if there
was such a store open today called
LifeWay if you went into that store a
Bible that they that they give us would
cost about $60 or $70 that's not
counting their Study Bible that would be
over a hundred because the binding is so
good they've just given it to us I mean
it's not like buying a Bible for $10 and
then the pages come out in about three
or four months these are wonderful
Bibles and they said as soon as you get
this distributed come back and we'll get
more so this next container that we're
shipping is going to going to contain uh
chairs and desks desks for the expanding
school but also all these Bibles costs
about 11 $12,000 to send we lack about
4,000 right now to get it gone but we
will be loading it Friday and uh so this
is a container that just arrived uh two
weeks before Christmas and this is in
mppa istini which used to be swasiland
and you can see the banana boxes there
you know you can see their building
there the container that's arrived and
the road is so narrow to get to their
building you can't you can't ship them a
40ft container so you got to ship a you
know 20 foot to get get through there
and uh and talk about Merry Christmas I
mean the brethren we when then they
trucked it all up into the villages you
know to those congregations you you know
you get all these clothes you know they
don't have they don't have the means to
buy clothes as far as financially I mean
you give a congregation 200 boxes of
clothes and then they put the word out
to their Village to come you talk about
the good relationships you build now I
heard during the hurricane here that you
had even some helicopters in Landing
here that you even had people that you
were all through this hurricane that you
guys were helping and I'm telling you
that's you talk about putting a smile on
God's
face and I'm so thankful that you're
doing things like that and that's
exactly what happens there and then the
Avenues open to share the good news of
Jesus Christ and we're thankful for it
and so we're going to be shipping more
desks to our school and um excited about
that by the way I just want you to know
that we just finished our fourth
classroom
Wing in
July this is our computer
building now just picture this a
child uh a high school student leaves
their house or should I say Hut at about
6:30 in the morning walks an hour and a
half to
school lot of it through the bush
and at that house that is left there is
no running water there is no
power they've never experienced that in
their life and they come to our school
and they sit down beond a computer and
they the worldwide web is before them
now you think of the figure out the the
time you know I mean how many centuries
or or Century have they come in just a
matter of hours uh by the way we just
got stalling
you know at our rural school you know
those kids if if you blew up that
picture you will see that uh Ginger the
lady there from Huntington Tennessee she
is teaching the first class that's the
first time they've ever touched a laptop
and it'll tell the it's telling them how
to switch it on you know and then they
go from there uh he talk about opening
up a whole new world to them and the and
uh breaking out of poverty
now breaking out of poverty there is
different than breaking out of poverty
here and I'm not saying that people
don't struggle here but what I am saying
that is just an amazing thing for them
to be able to get a job in town
somewhere and get their own little house
and you know and and that's that's where
they going than living in a mud hut the
rest of their
days um this is our school bus that that
that we had purchased and uh they're all
excited and our youth program is going
to be called yes youth exalting the Sun
and and Tristan is going to be going to
be heading that up and we we're thankful
for that uh so this is our Sports uh
complex that we just finished we've got
some boys there's Bo I've looked at some
boys here in this Auditorium and you
probably some of you could probably
guess your age and you come here and
you'll say Dorian I'm 18 or I'm 17 if if
you put one of our senior boys next to
you you would think he he was 14
because of the lack of food that he has
had in his lifetime he's eaten one meal
every like I said two or three days and
it's just usually carbohydrates and
that but we have pictures of students
that came the first year to our school
and you should see them now and so to
our athletes and to others we're going
to pump them up but we're going to serve
proed also for their lunches as well but
but we are we are thankful thankful that
we have that for them too you know this
is our senior class by the way they
haven't graduated yet they graduate
November 2025 and so excited about that
uh this is uh this is ominous and and
this is a special group and I'll tell
you why not because they the first
graduating class but they also came out
of Co and when Co was shut down I mean
when it was at its height they missed
the year of school and then they went
straight into high school and I mean
they had to play serious catchup and
they came during vacation summer holiday
days they're at
school and um they want to learn and and
I'm thankful for their
enthusiasm uh this
uh so one of the things that we started
this year is um in a big way as far as
our ministry is concerned is Bible camps
this is a Bible camp we had in Cape Town
South Africa we had a little over 150 we
had 11 to come to the Lord during that
period of time and Tristan is going to
be hitting this up in the years to come
with others as well uh um this is a camp
we had in Venda sou Southern uh Northern
South Africa uh that was one of the
Bible classes we also had a little over
a hundred there at Benda and you we
appreciate the Sisters in Christ who
cooked with that lovely commercial
kitchen we provided them and I mean you
I mean they cooked over that fire it was
just I me we we are so thankful and then
we we're about to have have our first
camp in May uh as far as partners for
Africa is concerned at a place that Deb
and I went to when we were
teenagers and and and that was at least
10 or 12 years
ago but the the last full day of camp we
would climb that mountain by the way
solos it's in an area called mopus it's
a um a world heritage site and that
Chapel Deb and I have worshiped in that
Chapel
that has been there that long in fact
the the scripture that was read Psalms
121 is engraved there on the top of that
hill where that Chapel is and you know
what's it's special because my grandson
is going to be leading a camp for uh
Zimbabwe youth at at at Shalom and
that's the name of the place there and
so so so we are thankful I'm going
to let me just share some thoughts with
with you just to kind of pump you up a
little bit
um
David is in a Crossroads at a Crossroads
because you see he's standing in front
of a house that's burned down and he
doesn't know where his family
is he doesn't know if they're
alive and and and as you as you picture
him you look at him and you think he
doesn't know where to get food he
doesn't know where to get water he I
mean it's just it's just such a tragedy
and and you're so glad you're not in his
shoes you know you you you're just so
happy that you're not in his position
where you say it's in a a little town 40
Mi Southwest of Jerusalem it's about
10:15 BC the name of the town is zigg
lag it's actually a Philistine town and
um uh uh David is running from King Saul
he he wants uh Saul wants to take his
life and David goes to this Philistine
leader and the Philistine leader says I
got zigg bring you 600 soldiers and and
and you and your family can stay there
and so so so they all move there and
then the akish the Philistine leader
says come with me to a Philistine muster
where we're going to plan battle against
the our Arch enemies the Israelites and
when David takes the 600 men and gets
there the Philistine leaders other ones
say no way we don't trust him he's an
Israelite and so they send him back
packing and it's a 3-day Journey back
and when they get
there their houses are devastated I mean
they burn to the ground and they don't
know where their families are and it's a
thre Day hike and they are exhausted and
the guys that raided Zig lag was the
amalekites and they are on
camels and David is in a
position where let me tell you this if
he doesn't correct his course he is not
going to be the next king of
Israel because he did several things I
mean you've blown I mean just just think
here he stands and he doesn't know where
his family is and the Bible says in
Samuel that when you are hurting the
Bible doesn't actually say that but but
but it's indicating this that when you
are hurting you want instant relief and
Samuel says listen they his soldiers
wanted to Stone him because they come
back and they they they they've cried
that they until they could not cry no
more the Bible
says and not only that God can't be
pleased with him that he would align
himself with the enemies of
God and then the amalekites how you
going to catch
them how do you see God in the
dark because that exactly where David is
right
now how do you see God in the dark
listen to this
passage David was greatly distressed
because the men were talking of Killing
Him heartache crushes the spirit S pro
Proverbs 15:13 a crushed Spirit who can
bear Proverbs
15:14 but the Bible says in 1st Samuel
30:6 but David found strength in the
Lord his God what do you mean by oh he
prayed to God no no no no
oh yes he did eventually but not now
David thought first David thought about
a few things and one of the things was
who God was who am I praying
to you see because
uh the object of our prayer makes all
the
difference who am I praying to if I'm
going to get out of this darkness is
this someone bigger than the
darkness David thought first before he
prayed of who God was you won't find it
in this
passage but you'll find it in his Psalms
the Psalms he
wrote David said my god
reigns he thought of God's Sovereign
power he remember God's power was the
first step to
recovery I will exalt you my God The
King and I will praise your name forever
and ever Psalms 145:1 one generation
will commend your works for another they
will tell you your might of your Mighty
act Psalms
145:4 I I will I will share this with
you because you are people that
understand it in 1989 we were on the
island of St Croy and they said Hurrican
youo was coming now just just just just
to be uh just to let you know it's you
know it's part of the US Virgin Islands
which I know you know but I just want
you to know the size of St Croy 28 miles
long 7 m miles wide and the eye of Yugo
was 40
miles the yug hurricane was 250 mil in
circumference we
were it was Sunday morning the Hurrican
was coming in that evening early
morning so one guy said at service he
said listen I I I'm taking care of this
house kind of up you know our house was
in a lower level kind of up you know a
higher elevation and we've got we've got
hurricane
shutters and and why don't you all come
so so we did and we bolted those
shutters down you know and and so yeah
we are prepared and we we got into the
house and we decided well why don't we
have service and and and and one one guy
puts up his hand and says uh why don't
we sing offl Away really
really that wind started coming and and
I'm not telling you anything that you
don't know but once it peeled and you
know the hurricane and it's just so
persistent man once it peeled away the
first shutter and got into that first
room then it was just a matter of time
as the house just went you know and we
moving from one room to the other to the
other and and the eye came over and and
and you know how I mean it's just quiet
it's just amazing and how still and you
know people describe it like a an engine
you know fire engine coming not I mean a
train engine coming and I'm telling you
boy it was just like that that second
part of the hurricane got down to one
room we were in 3 in of water I saw a
washer uh uh just fly past us I just
knew with my little children there that
we were gone that night it was over
and and
I God is so good I was holding up
mattresses and they had those sliding
glass doors I couldn't believe how much
glass could Bend without breaking but it
finally did and then you felt things hit
the mattress you know they were flying
and then finally it died down and I just
fell in the
water but I tell you what during all
that
time I'm so thankful that I spent time
in God's word and and and and and took
it into my heart because as I looked at
my children and family it was okay you
know God I know that you
Reign you're the one and no matter what
happens to us tonight we safe in your
arms
one other thing that David thought of
there's several other things but I just
want to close with
this he thought about my God
cares because he wrote The Lord is my
shepherd David saw the invisible in the
visible he lifted the veil he saw God as
a tender loving Shepherd you know we
familiar with that passage 1 Peter 5:7
cast all your anxieties on him because
he cares for you why would God write
that why with the Holy Spirit why
because he knows that we are people that
get
anxious we are people that suffer from
stress our lives are filled with
anxieties I wrote a few things down here
a frightening
diagnosis a financial
setback deadline you can't meet
relationship that you cannot repair
anymore
a global pandemic disrupting every part
of your life and the possibilities are
just
endless so I was in Cersei Arkansas a
few months ago and uh an elder came
forward before I began preaching at the
meeting and he shared
a he shared a story her name was Lulu
and you might have heard the story she
was uh at the beach in uh I think Gulf
Shores and she got into the water and a
shark attacked her and she lost her limb
one of her limbs legs and uh part of her
arm a guy was walking by on the beach
and uh and and he saw it was happening
and he just ran in the water and started
punching the shark you know not you know
I get the shark you know I don't think
he was hurting anyway but kind of got it
I must have got a little shock you know
and then you swam away and he picks up
this picks up Lulu and just brings on to
the shore now you can imagine what's
happened you know having limbs
ripped there are about seven people if I
remember the number correctly that are
playing on the beach they're on
vacation but they happen to be a surgery
team and they rush to
her and once the helicopter is called to
come get her it is found out that the
helicopter
protocol was to carry four pints of
blood but they changed it to 10 pints of
blood blood which was enough to get her
to the hospital and save her life of
course today she would tell you she
thanks God
Almighty for what happened in our
life I don't know what 2025 holds for
you
all and for
me but I know this that no matter what
Darkness might
come David makes it clear that there is
this God that he prayed to who is far
greater than any darkness and that it's
his light that will dissipate
it for as many of you that have been
baptized into Christ have put on Christ
I've always love that verse and you know
why because it's talking about adopting
the Jesus Christ loving him and his
qualities and so it's not just you know
getting wet as it were so uh you know we
want to extend that to you if you have a
casual stroll with God we want you to
get serious in 2025 i w you come as we
stand and sing
