and so it it was I wasn't sure exactly
what I wanted to prepare for a while um
and you know I I drive from here out to
Tampa every day it's about a 45minut
hour drive and I drive that same drive
back and I consume a lot of I try to
find things to spend my time and so I
listen to a lot of sermons a lot of
things online and and this this topic of
praying honestly came up actually fairly
recently and so it really kind of
pricricked my heart and got me thinking
and some of the concepts I'll I'll sort
of highlight as we go through the things
that were really sort of the high points
that helped me flesh out this talk but
but before I get started I figured
although Rex spoke for a little bit that
we we can't start without a joke and so
I tried my best to find the best Rex
joke and I I got some eye rolls from my
children so I think I did an okay job so
um a man is praying to God and he looks
to heaven and he asks God "What is a
million years to you?" And so God
answers in a booming voice "To me a
million years is like a second." So the
man thinks and he looks up at the sky
and asks "Well what is a million dollars
to you then?" And so God answers "To me
a million dollars is like a penny." So
the man looks down thinks some more and
then he looks up as he's continuing to
pray and then after a while he says to
God "God can I have a penny?" "Sure,"
God answers just just a
second groans and takes takes a
minute and so you know I wasn't actually
sure if we were going to um have someone
reading that that passage and so I had
it sort of prepared to go through and so
I wanted to touch on some of the
highlights of that passage in Matthew 6
um 25 through34 right so so it starts
off and and to balance from this morning
right so Keegan gave an awesome sermon
his sermon was a little bit darker so
I'm hoping to start this sermon a little
bit lighter and a little bit but still
the same topic right the same idea kind
of two sides of the same coin if you
will and so it starts off therefore I
tell you do not worry about your life it
seems easy when you just say it like
that right don't don't worry what you
will eat or drink or what your body or
or about your body what you will wear is
not life more than food and the body
more than clothes seems pretty simple
look at the birds of the air they do not
sew or reap or store away in barns they
don't spend the time doing the things
that we spend so much time doing look at
the b um and yet your heavenly father
feeds them are you not much more
valuable than they right we we that's
all God's creation but we are much more
valuable to God than the birds of the
air and and yet we worry that he's not
going to that he's not going to to um to
help us right can any of one of you by
worrying add a single hour to your life
and I think that's that's really such a
true statement right i mean we worry and
we spend so much time worrying and it
does not help us right it doesn't get us
any further and so it kind of goes on
and I'll get to the end therefore do not
worry about tomorrow for tomorrow will
worry about itself each day has enough
trouble of its own which is such a true
statement right and so our lives can be
can be so full of worry right i spend my
day talking with worried parents um
every day all day long is what I do is
talk to worried parents really
ultimately whether these worries may be
small or these worries may be big
whether I'm sitting in front of a family
talking to them about end of life issues
I just saw Noah look up so that's a
picture of Noah with Stacy when he was a
baby Noah's here with his girlfriend
Julie and she was pointing at the
picture of Noah so so I think you know I
I spend this time but I wanted to share
a story right so when Stacy was pregnant
it was not an easy pregnancy and it was
a stressful pregnancy and so you sort of
think was you get through it and
thankfully everything went okay
ultimately through the entire pregnancy
and Noah was born and we thought great
we made it over the finish line now we
have a healthy baby you know in front of
us and and we brought him home and he
was jaundice and you know I'm you know I
did a pediatric residency I did four
years of training I I'm used to taking
care of babies who were jaundice and at
first we thought it was just
breastfeeding jaundice and didn't think
much about it but it didn't get better
he just got more and more yellow and
more more and more yellow and we kept
checking labs and the the values would
go up and up and up and so after a few
days and and getting that checked we
ended up getting admitted back to the
children's hospital where I worked up
there in Denver Colorado and we were
there for a week the the numbers kept
going up and there was a whole team of
pediatricians and residents that were in
charge of helping us figure out what was
going on and no one could figure out why
he was so jaundice it took days and days
and they would come around to draw labs
uh um to to check on things and they had
a lab team that would always come at the
wrong time so So Stace had just either
started to breastfeed or she was had
just done feeding him and he was
sleeping so she would tell them "Leave
leave the stuff i'll go ahead and draw
the labs." So Stacy actually drew all of
the labs every morning on Noah as we
were trying to figure out what was going
on and and and I remember sitting by his
sort of bassinet sitting by his isolet
cuz he was a newborn and and bawling i
mean just
crying i made it 10 minutes because I
didn't
know i knew so much right this was what
I had spent so long training for and I
couldn't help him
and I tell that story to parents you
know because as doctors we're on the
other side we're on the side trying to
to coach them through we're on the side
trying to help them to not be worried
and when it's your child it's easier
said than done right
ultimately just to give it you know kind
of a finish to that part of the story
and I move on to the Keegan's part um
the uh uh the uh he ended up actually
having something called a congenital
hindbody anemia so he had a mutation
that was only expressed on his fetal
hemoglobin which is really only the
hemoglobin that you use when you're in
the womb and for the first two to three
months after birth and so his body
recognized that hemoglobin as foreign
because it had that mutation so his body
would attack it and lice it and he
became anemic his his his red blood cell
count went down and that Billy Rubin
which is the yellow that we see in the
skin went up and up and up and so for
about three months until he finally
stopped expressing that fetal hemoglobin
um we were dealing with his jaundice and
it was really a genetic condition that
you outgrow which there's really not
many other genetic conditions that you
can outgrow um but it took a week to
figure that out um and it was it was
very it was very stressful and and you
know we we were very worried and so the
it doesn't project very well that that
picture which is actually Rob Height's
pool and on the top of the pool is
Keegan this is the fastest picture I
could find of Keegan kind of at the last
minute so I circled it with red but you
can't really tell and so in my notes I
just have Noah's story and then I have
Keegan's story and so this morning he
told a big piece of that story he talked
about that dark time that he spent in
the ICU and and those of us that were
taking care of patients during COVID
those of us that saw the isolation that
the patients went through those of us
that heard the horror stories of the
families that didn't get to see their
loved ones we knew that darkness we saw
that darkness and so Keegan Keegan went
over and and thanks be to God and and I
mean so many miracles he's still here
and he made it through what he shouldn't
have made it through but we were talking
one day out in the forer and we're
talking about parenting and he was sort
of telling that story and you know about
how it was tough but he he didn't really
I mean he worried because he didn't want
to be alone but but he you know it was
it was stressful but but it was it was
his
worry and then when Callum was born
that's when he realized a whole another
level of worry because now he realized
that he had to live for someone else
right he that he wanted to be there and
it was just it was a shift in
perspective you think you make it
through this this horrifying experience
and and having a son is not a horrifying
experience but you realize a different
level of pressure right and so so we
these these stories I think kind of get
across we have we have lots of to worry
about right and so you know life goes
fast that you can't really see it too
well but I I was told actually I showed
this picture to Noah and he said "Mr
smith over over there at FCA shows this
multiple times over the year during
their um kind of convocations what what
it depicts is every dot every circle is
a week of your life and it starts at
birth and at the end if you live to be
90 those are the circles so that's
that's your life right there up on the
screen and it seems like not much right
it seems like so
little and that's me right i'm I'm going
to be 50 this May i'm over half of that
way to 90 and it goes by so fast i feel
like this that picture should have
really big circles at the beginning cuz
a day an hour goes by so slow a week
goes by is an eternity but now man you
blink and that week is gone that month
is gone where does it where does it
go and then this overlays all of these
sort of uh these milestones of life you
know schooling career job marriage uh um
you know when you retire and it really
just breaks it down and all these
milestones but but there's so much to
worry about right every day that that
there's just there's just so much and so
I mean it's not surprising that we turn
to prayer right we spend a lot of time
praying i'd kind of hoped it would be up
on the screen so So America's 3.6
billion minutes every day collectively
praying every single day we spend a lot
of time praying but if you look over to
that to the right what that's showing is
each generation
uh they we are just the likelihood of
that we're going to spend 10 minutes a
day praying and you can see that
likelihood of going down so so it's more
than half for for my generation and as
you go each generation down it becomes
less and less likely that we'll even
spend 10 minutes praying and the things
that we pray about is is pretty
universal the sort of content of our
prayer we we pray a lot of prayers for
gratitude we play we pray a lot of
prayers uh giving thanks for for family
um and and for friends and for things at
work
we uh we we pray a lot for for uh for
jobs and and for events in our life
right and and and we pray because we're
worried and we pray because we're sad
and we pray because we want
help you can't really see so that's sort
of breakdown of the things right
but um and you can't really see over
there but all the the the lines if you
had to rate if if people what what they
did is they they did a sort of interview
and they had people rate how satisfied
are you with your prayer life on a scale
of 0 to 10 zero being not very satisfied
10 being extremely satisfied and these
were believers and you can see that most
of the dots are kind of in the middle
right we're we're sort of maybe
satisfied kind of in the middle we're
not really sure are we are we really
satisfied with with our prayer life
and they there's lots of barriers that
people will list as to as to barriers
for for why we have a hard time praying
or maybe why we're not satisfied right
we we get distracted very easily i'm
going to I'm going to bring that one up
again um in a little bit we're we're
kind of indifference uh you know I mean
I just didn't seem to care that day i
get busy or I'm not sure what to pray
about i kind of have a loss for words
and I want to bring that one up in a
little bit as well
and so you know there's there's lots of
of reasons we we know that we that we
need to pray we know that we want to
pray but sometimes we may not always
pray or we may not be as happy uh with
our prayer um so a man so I'm going to
have a couple of jokes in my sermon a
man had been struggling to find a
parking space for over 20 minutes and he
finally prays to God "Lord if you help
me find a space I promise to do a good
deed every day for the rest of my life."
But just then a space opened up right in
front of him so he whipped right into
the spot and he said "Never mind Lord i
found one myself." All right and isn't
that how we approach our life right you
you you ask for you ask for for for help
you ask that you know God but then but
then you're still you still want to
handle it yourself right it seems crazy
that on one hand we're going to trust in
Lord Jesus for our eternal salvation but
still think that we've got to figure out
this life thing on our own and really
that figuring out part is just code for
how can we control our own lives right
jesus went to the cross to make a way
for us to have a relationship with a
holy and perfect God but we have to
worry about that fight that we had with
our wife or that fight that we had with
our children on our own it just doesn't
it just doesn't seem to make any
sense and so God tells us right
therefore I tell you do not worry about
your life can any one of you by worrying
add a single hour to your life back to
the verse to the to the um our our
opening Bible verse right and so Paul
writes in his epistle to um to the
Philippians "Do not be anxious about
anything but in every situation by
prayer and petition with thanksgiving
present your requests to God and the
peace of God which transcends all
understanding will guard your hearts and
your minds in Christ Jesus."
So I mean there's this theme in the
Bible over and over you know give it
give it to God so so why do we worry
right well there's there's a a couple
different thoughts of of why we have a
kind you know um you kind of worry about
things right in Proverbs 4:23 King
Solomon is giving advice to his son he
says "Son above all else guard your
heart for everything you do flows from
it." And so we understand that the heart
is the seat of who we truly are it
drives our actions and it influences our
thinking and our behavior right we think
we think that our brain is in charge but
really it's not right our heart is
really what is in charge and so it it's
a little bit I don't know I kind of
thought a little kind of hierarchy but
there's this concept of this god-shaped
vacuum that exists in our heart and it
was at least it's credited to bla1
Pascal although the the the writing that
it's credited to actually um was
published after he passed away but he
said that there is a God or what's
attributed to him said there's a
God-shaped vacuum in the heart of each
man which cannot be satisfied by any
created thing but only by God the
creator made known through Jesus Christ
so we know intuitively that there's
something more to life than just our
this world just just what's around us
right sean last Sunday had talked about
this you know kind of a general
revelation versus a special revelation
right this general sort of written into
our heart written almost in our DNA this
realization that there's more to life
than this world and really it's more
than just what we realize all of
creation knows it right we see in Romans
8:22 we know that the whole creation has
been groaning circles of our life right
and we're really good at this when we're
young we're really good at you know
soccer is my life when I was a when I
was really young I skateboarding was my
life i would kill myself if I got on a
skateboard now but man I thought for
sure I was always going to be on a
skateboard right we're we're really good
at finding that meaning or that purpose
on those superficial things and then as
we get older we realize that those are
empty right in Matthew uh uh chapter 6
verse 19 we're reminded do not store up
for yourselves treasure on earth where
moths and vermin destroy and where
thieves break in and steal it's it's
it's going to go away it's not permanent
these things are not going to last but
store up for yourselves treasures in
heaven the things that will last the
things that are eternal for where your
treasure is there your heart will be
also back to this idea of really trying
to center our heart which is going to
guide our intentions on what on what
matters and so worry really is a result
of trying to fill that God-shaped hole
with these things that are are fleeting
right and what happens when we fill that
hole is it leaves a residue of
insecurity of anxiety of rest of work
and there there never will be enough and
we need to realize that and so when we
recognize that there's a gap between
this understanding of of who we of who
we think we are or at least who we think
we should be and what God wants for us
we're tempted and we can be thought of
you can think of it in three different
ways sort of three different ways that
you can be tempted to react to that to
that gap that space between where you
think you are and where you know God
wants you to be right you can give up it
can be despair back to sort of the the
you know the dark uh kind of time of our
of our lives you can just give up and
feel and feel hopeless and and that is
an answer that a lot of people take or
at least for a part of time that that
you may take as you as you approach
these problems in your life but
recognizing that that you know is not uh
um the the right answer but recognizing
that that is sort of our human nature
right we can despair you can have an
immoral temptation right so you can be
tempted to try to just keep heaping in
more things right pursue those things
that I said before physical things cars
money success drugs pornography th those
things of this world just keep keep
going after it and then there's a moral
temptation which you know is is also
kind of insidious right i can do better
i can do more at church i can fix myself
right self-help books you can read a
billion self-help books you can try to
to to study your way out of that problem
but you're not going to be able to do it
on your own and realizing that you can't
do it on your own is really
important and so recognizing that God
wants a relationship with us and
importantly he knows
us we think that he oh he doesn't know
that thing that I did he doesn't know
that that corner of my soul that thing
that I don't tell anyone else about he
knows god seeks us he loves us he
strengthens us and he knows us we see in
Psalms "The Lord is near to all who call
on him to all who call on him in truth
with
honesty." In Isaiah we read "So do not
fear for I am with you do not be
dismayed for I am your God i will
strengthen you and will help you i will
uphold you with my righteous right
hand." So he is there to help us and to
hold us in Psalms 37 we read "The Lord
makes firms firm the steps of the one
who delights in him though he may
stumble." Right god knows that we're not
going to get it right on a daily basis
right he will not fall for the Lord
upholds him with his hand he's there he
knows and he's there to help us in John
we read "I this is this is Jesus now
talking i am the good shepherd i know my
sheep and my sheep know me and I know
the father and I lay down my life for
the sheep." You could do a whole sermon
on interesting things about sheep and
how we are sheep
so and then Matthew we read Matthew
chapter 6 so do not worry saying "What
shall I eat?" This is back to our sort
of sort of um a kind of inspiration for
this whole sermon what do not worry
saying "What shall we eat or what shall
we drink or what shall we wear?" For the
pagans run after all these things and
your heavenly father knows he knows that
you need them but seek first his kingdom
and his righteousness and all of these
things will be given to you as well so
don't worry he will provide you what you
need even though you may not recognize
or understand what it is that you need
at that
time God knows like I said he knows
everything about us one example right is
the the Samaritan woman at the well
right she had this conversion experience
while talking to Jesus and a big part of
that realization a big part of that
conversion was was Jesus basically
laying out her entire life just right
there in front of her just laying her
bare and she realized that he knows me
he knows that things that other people
don't know about me you know he must be
the one and she she had a conversion
experience right there really partially
or a big part because of that knowledge
and that understanding that well I can't
go anywhere he he knows me and so she
went on to then go and and talk to
several other people in her village and
and a lot of people were converted from
that from that experience in 1 John 4:10
we read this is love not that we loved
God but God but but God but but he loved
us and sends his son as an atoning
sacrifice for our sins right so God
comes to us we don't have to do
something to go to him god comes to us
and another version of that or not
another version but another way to look
at that is of course John 3:16 right so
God so loved the world that he gave his
only
son and so in this book Imagine Heaven
John Burke studied over a thousand
near-death experiences and and many of
these people were not believers they
just were telling their story he sought
these people out and in that book he he
tells the story of a of a non-believer
who described his near-death experience
and he was standing in front of a
blinding light he described it as the
light that had colors that he didn't
even know existed and in that light
every sin every mistake everything about
him in his life was completely exposed
and the quote that he says was at that
moment he never felt so
loved so God doesn't forget our sins he
knows them and he knows us and he still
loves us and pursues us isn't that
amazing news and that's key right that
there's you're not gonna outend God
you're not gonna hide things from him
and so I thought this was a lesson about
prayer right with this foundation let's
talk about prayer i I wanted to briefly
at least make the distinction between
group prayer and personal prayer because
I'm going to spend really the rest of it
talking about personal prayer but I
don't want to minimize group prayer
right group prayer really strengthens
unity among believers it helps support
one another it helps us to build
community it helps us it's gratifying to
hear as a whole everyone saying the same
things and recognize that you're part of
a larger body right in Matthew 18 we
read "For where two or three gather in
my
name." In Matthew 6 through8 we read
"But when you pray go into your room."
Closed distraction or lost for words
people think that they don't know what
to pray for so they just they just fill
it in with a bunch of words there there
it is in the Bible don't don't babble be
honest so like I said God wants a
relationship with us and prayer is a way
for us to have that relationship prayer
connects us with
God one of the reasons because I
struggle with prayer it's it's been
something that I struggle with because
you always think that you have to do it
exactly right you've got to say the
right words or do it in some order and
and this study really helped me realize
that that is that that is not true right
in Philippians 4 we read "Do not be
anxious about anything but in every
situation by prayer and petition with
thanksgiving present your requests to
God and the peace of God which
transcends all your understanding will
guard your heart and your mind in Christ
Jesus."
So in in in this book where prayer
becomes real how honesty with God
transforms your soul these these these
were some statements from that book and
and they really kind of rang true with
me as I was thinking about this idea of
being honest in prayer right prayer is
not a place to be good it is a place to
be honest prayer is not a place to
perform it's not a place to just say the
things that you think you ought to say
or the things that that you think people
want to hear you say if you're playing
in public it's a place to be present
it's a place to mean the things that you
say this is not easy to do prayer is not
a place to be right it is a place to be
known and sometimes those things that
you're praying to God they may be wrong
but God wants you to say those things to
him he wants to hear you say those
things prayer is not a place to prove
your worth is not a place to to to try
to one up any you know just sort of to
to prove what's important it is a place
to receive worth and offer yourself in
truth so once again prayer is a place to
be
honest god is here for us all and he
gives us the Holy Spirit as a blessing
in Romans 8 we read "In the same way the
Spirit helps us in our weakness we do
not know what we ought to pray for but
the Spirit himself intercedes for us
through wordless groans and he all and
he who searches our heart knows the mind
of the spirit." Because the spirit
intercedes for God's people in
accordance with the will of God so God
gives us the Holy Spirit to help us
navigate this honesty in our prayer the
Holy Spirit pleads for us and intercedes
to help align our prayers and our
desires with God's will and so if if
we're if we allow it and if we're honest
and if we pay attention the Holy Spirit
is going to act as a mirror and this
this concept was really I I thought was
really what kind of shifted my my uh
kind of view on this to show us where
our heart is and and so we should be
honest right we we all have that prayer
template i I'm going to have to throw
Noah and Jacob under the bus when when
they say grace every day before eating
before before dinner they say the same
prayer because that's what they're
familiar with right and we do that we we
might start it off the same way we might
have those words that we
use certain things that we say and and
if you're praying in private if you're
praying kind of to yourself internally
let's be honest sometimes your mind
starts to wander right you start to
think about other stuff and and then you
realize oh man that was like a couple of
minutes and I I was praying now I'm not
I feel like I'm not praying anymore and
so you might shame yourself back i'm I'm
sorry i God I'm I'm sorry this is not
you know and you get back and you start
you might throw a couple of you know
thou shouts and kind of words that that
don't make really much sense nowadays in
there to try to make your prayer seem
right but but where does your mind
wander to where does it go does it go to
work does it go to a relationship a
problem a problem at work or a problem
at home because that's where your heart
is your mind is wandering and it's
showing you where your heart is and
remember your heart is really the source
the root that that center of everything
but be honest god already knows god
already knows where your heart is so you
tell him are you angry are you sad do
you have doubts think of that way that
that your mind wandering really is a
warning light on your dashboard of your
car showing you those things that you
need to be dealing with you don't need
to reroute and go back to your sort of
uh prayer template you need to be
dealing with where your mind wanders to
those that wandering is a gift from the
Holy Spirit so be honest and pray to God
and give it to God because he knows it
already in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 we
read "Rejoice always pray
continually which is also hard to do
give thanks in all circumstances for
this is God's will for you in Christ
Jesus so it's it's hard to always give
thanks in all circumstances right Keegan
it was pretty hard to give thanks when
there were I don't know how many chest
tubes you had sticking out of you right
it's hard to give thanks in those dark
times but here here we're reading give
thanks give you know pray continuously
give thanks in all
circumstances so sometimes you may not
be thankful be honest tell God what's
bothering you he already
knows and so I'm not going to read all
of it i didn't even look at what time I
got up here or started i'm famous for
talking for a long period but but I
wanted to read at least part of Psalm
139 you have searched me Lord and you
know me you know when I sit and when I
rise you perceive my thoughts from afar
you discern my going out and my lying
down you are familiar with all of my
ways before a word is even on my tongue
you Lord know it completely you hem me
in behind and before and you lay your
hand upon me such knowledge is too
wonderful for me too lofty for me to
attain so where can I go from your
spirit where can I flee from your
presence you can't if I go up to the
heavens you are there if I make my bed
in the depths you are there in those
dark times he's there in those happy
times you know he's there he is
everywhere if I rise on the wings of the
dawn if I settle on the far side of the
sea even there your hand will guide me
your right hand will hold me fast he
will help us if I say "Surely the
darkness will hide me and the light
become night around me even the darkness
will not be dark to you the night will
shine like the day for darkness is as
light to you." So in those dark times
it's like it's like a bright light for
God he knows and he is
there now it doesn't mean that God's
going to fix everything or at least
everything that we want him to fix right
in Paul's letter to the church at
Corinth we read "Therefore in order to
keep me from being conceited or from
becoming conceited I was given a thorn
in my flesh a messenger of Satan to
torment me three times I pleaded I
prayed with the Lord to take it away
from me but he said to me "My grace is
sufficient for you for my power is made
perfect in weakness therefore I will
boast all the more gladly about my
weakness so that Christ's power may rest
on me and so there's there's this idea
right that that prayers that are
answered prayers that are unanswered
it's all about perspective and it's all
about how you're looking at life and and
maybe our prayers that we feel aren't
answered haven't been answered yet or
have been answered in ways that you may
not even expect it's hard to understand
having confidence in God's plan for your
life but having that confidence is where
we find peace and once again it's about
that relationship honest prayer builds
that relationship it's not just the
words that we say i saw a story about a
little four-year-old named Melinda and
her favorite story was the three little
pigs and so she'd ask her dad to read it
to her every night before bed and her
dad was happy to do this but every night
reading the same story over and over got
a little bit old and so we got an idea
maybe he could report he could record
himself reading that story on his phone
and you can kind of play it for before
bed and then she wouldn't need him but
she didn't like that idea at all
melinda's father said "But honey you'll
still be able to hear me read that story
every night." But she replied "Yes but
if you're not reading it to me I can't
sit in your
lap." So it's really more about the
relationship than just the words god
already knows those words that you're
going to say he wants to have that
relationship with
you and
so we go back to where we all started
right back to Matthew chapter 6 verse 33
but seek first before we do anything
seek first his kingdom and his
righteousness and all these things will
be giving to will be given to you as
well honest prayer opens our heart for
God to fill that void shifting our
desires away from or or sorry shifting
our desires towards his kingdom in Psalm
107 we read for he satisfies the thirsty
and fills the hungry with good things he
he loves us in Romans 8 we read and we
know that in all things God works for
the good of those who love him who have
been called according to his purpose and
and back to this idea that that if
there's unanswered prayers that are just
bothering you if you feel like well God
God seems like he's he's answering the
prayers for everyone else but but not
for me just recognizing that that we
don't understand the ways of God right
in Isaiah 55 for my thoughts are not
your thoughts neither are your ways my
ways declares the Lord as the heavens
are higher than the earth so are my ways
higher than your ways and my thoughts
than than your thoughts so being patient
and recognizing that God has a plan and
just
relax and so that's my lesson so if we
start with God's unending love for us as
described by Jesus in Matthew 6 we can
find peace and confidence therefore do
not worry about tomorrow for tomorrow
will worry about itself each day has
enough trouble of its own
and so I was listening us to this just a
few days ago i was listening to a
podcast with Preston Morrison and he was
talking about how he had just finalized
the adoption of a 5-year-old that he had
been fostering for years and he said
although his son had called him father
for years and years the biggest
difference once that adoption was
finalized was that now he said if anyone
came after that child they had to go
through him before the adoption there
were layers because of the foster care
system and those layers would get in the
way um you know even though he called
him father those layers were still
present and so it's honest personal
prayer where we start to peel back those
layers right we start to acknowledge to
ourselves what God already knows and we
can start to work on them let the Holy
Spirit act as that mirror to show you
what is really in your heart and so this
week I encourage you to let your mind
wander when praying seek what the Holy
Spirit is trying to show
you and see where your heart truly
is and God
help let's go to God in prayer
father you love us so
deeply we are all sinners and we fall so
short of your
love and your will for us but you still
pursue us you still fight for
us you made a way through your son for
us to have a relationship with you help
us to seek first your kingdom
help us to find joy and peace and relax
knowing that that this world is not
really our final home our time on this
planet is so so short and is not meant
meant to really answer all of our needs
or really any of our
needs father sometimes being honest is
scary sometimes it's hard and sometimes
it really can hurt help us to
relax in your love for us and find
strength in your presence in Jesus name
we pray amen
