So, April the of 2024,
the parents of a high school shooter
were sentenced to 10 years for missed
opportunities to prevent their teenage
son from possessing a gun and killing
four students in 2021. An Oklahoma
County Judge, Cheryl Matthews, said
this.
These convictions are not about poor
parenting.
These convictions confirm repeated acts
or lack of acts that could have halted
an oncoming runaway train.
Jennifer and James Crumbly
did not know that Ethan Crumbly
had a handgun. He called his handgun
beauty. It was in his backpack that day
when they dropped him off at Oxford High
School.
So they were convicted of involuntary
manslaughter and sentenced to 10 years.
The parents
Craig Schillings
said this at the sentencing, "The blood
of our children is on your hands, too."
A father or mother being guilty of a
child's sins is not really fully
endorsed in the Bible.
Just want you to know. Not saying it's
not partially, but it's not fully
endorsed. Let me give you a little bit
about what it does say. Deuteronomy 24:E
16.
Fathers shall not be put to death shall
not not be put to death for their
children. Nor shall the children be put
to death for their fathers. A person
shall be put to death for his own sin.
Ezekiel 18:20 carrying that same thought
just slightly different way. The soul
who sins shall die. The son shall not
bear the guilt of the father nor the
father bear the guilt of the son. The
righteousness of the righteous shall be
upon himself and the wickedness of the
wicked shall be upon himself. Carrying
that same theme again in Jeremiah 31 29
and 30 it says in those days they shall
say no more. The fathers have eaten sour
grapes and the children's teeth are set
on edge but everyone shall die for his
own iniquity. Every man who eats the
sour grapes, his teeth shall be set on
edge. So the Bible doesn't seem to
support the idea of sentencing the
parents of someone whose children do
something. But there is a hint in the
scriptures of the guilt of parents for
the sins of their children.
For example, I mean this is not in the
list here, but before I get to the list,
1st Samuel 3 and verse 13, if you
recall, Eli had two sons, Hoffnnei and
Phineas. And fin Hoffnei and Phineas
were guilty of doing several things
wrong. One of which was taking meat from
the c before it would go into the
cauldron. And he wanted they wanted the
fat portions of that. They didn't do it
according to the scriptures. But one of
the big things they did is they u had
relations with women who came to do work
at the tabernacle. There was constant
work had to be done just to keep it from
wearing out. As you can imagine a tent
how easy a tent wears out and how the
clothing of the priest would wear out.
So it was constant work
and they had relationships with him and
as a result of that the scriptures say
in 1st Samuel 3:13 to Eli because you
haven't restrained and they were grown
men with children because you haven't
restrained your sons.
You won't be allowed to remain as priest
and neither will your sons. They ended
up all dying and then it was transferred
by David over to a guy named uh Sedai.
Exodus 20 though and verse 5 says, "I
the Lord your God am a jealous God,
visiting the iniquity of the fathers on
the children to the third and fourth
generation of those who hate me." So
there isn't just a hint of it. There's a
full thing of bearing guilt that can
pass down through families. We've talked
about that previously. And in John
chapter 9:es 2 and three, it says, "And
his disciples asked him, saying, "Rabbi,
whose sin, this man or his parents that
he was born blind?" Now, they were
incorrect about that. But what it shows
is the theology of the Jews was of such
that they believe that suffering often
flowed because the parent sins.
They believe that.
In Matthew 23:es 30-32 it says and say
if we had lived in the days of our
fathers we would not have been partakers
with them in the blood of the prophets.
Therefore, this is Jesus now. Therefore,
you are witnesses against yourselves
that you are sons of those who murdered
the prophets. Fill up then the measure
of your father's guilt. Wow, that's a
statement.
So I'm I want you to know that there is
an element in the scriptures that says
no no no
you don't pay for the sins of your
children and you don't pay for the sins
of your parents.
Then there's another element.
Oh yes, you can be guilty for the sins
of your parent. You can do that. And you
can be guilty for the sins of your
children.
So now as a qualification of being an
elder, the behavior of a son or daughter
could either enhance,
allow, or even prevent a man from
serving as a church leader.
That becomes obvious in their text. I
mean, why else would you have this as a
requirement if there's nothing you can
do about how your children should be?
I mean, there'd be no point in that now,
would there?
It's just like why would you have any
kind of rule about how the wife should
be unless the man has an effect on what
the wife should be like or vice versa
for that matter.
So we want to look at this from the last
time just a basic level that's three
little points I make and then we'll be
done. An elers's children must be so
faithful that there is no accusation.
That's the most significant thing that I
noticed in this text. It says, "If a man
is blameless, the husband of one wife
having faithful children, not accused of
dissipation or insubordination."
Now there you could make a discussion
about children. 1 Timothy 3:4, it's
plural. Titus 1:6 is plural. And so
often people will make an argument about
plurality of children. But if you go to
the deacons in 1 Timothy 3 and:12,
everything's plural. So you can't even
make that argument because that means
you can't make that argument at all. But
in this text, most people do make that
argument.
And not accused.
What does that mean?
It means to speak in the assembly.
That's what it means. To speak in the
assembly,
to make an accusation in front of
people.
Now, I want you to think about that just
a second. It means to make an accusation
in front of people about your children.
That's quite a statement.
That's not a mild thing. That's not a
minor thing. Who would dare do that?
I mean, that' be pretty significant,
wouldn't it?
Before you would stand up in front of a
whole assembly and say, "So and so's
child is."
Have you ever even seen that happen?
I don't think I've ever seen that
happen. Now, I'm not saying I haven't
seen accusations made in other settings
against even elders children. I've seen
that. But to see that in front of an
assembly, which is kind of the meaning
of the word here, it's kind of an
interesting concept. In Acts 25:16, it
says, using these same words,
when you use the word accused, it's the
same. to them. I answered, "It is not,
is it not the custom of Romans to
deliver any man to destruction?" I mean,
it is not, excuse me, I was right the
first time. It is not the custom of the
Romans to deliver any man to destruction
before the accused meets the accuser
face to face and has opportunity to
answer for himself concerning the charge
against him. This is Paul making his
argument. And so, there should be an
opportunity to face your accusers. By
the way, that's still true. And I want
to say something right here about this u
uh some of you are I think are confused
and it's probably me. I'm I'm good at
confusing people. You don't believe
that. Talk to my family. But but the
word when we're talking about
affirmation, I want you to understand
you have an opportunity to affirm
someone. But if you actually know
something that's significant on any of
the men that might make it through to be
in that day,
you have an obligation first and
foremost, go to those men. If you've got
a real thing, you know, you should talk
to them. And if you know something
significant, I mean, if you know
somebody's having an affair, I mean, God
forbid, okay, and we don't know it, and
you know it, like if you're a wife and
you know it, if you know your mate's not
faithful, you know that they're a clausy
uh addict to some drug and you say
nothing about that and you don't bring
that to and or to the elders,
you're not being responsible. So please
take that very seriously. If you know
something, it needs to be dealt with in
the proper way quickly.
So uh that day is serious. We do want to
know your affirmations or your not
affirmations in general of course and
none of the elders and none of the men
on staff will be doing that but and none
of the elders candidates will be doing
voting. But we need to know how you
feel. Just how you feel. Revelation
12:10.
But there's a way to make an accusation
was my point. And that's literally you
should make it face to face first and
foremost. Revelation 12:10. It's amazing
when you talk to somebody face to face
that what you find out, what you thought
is not the way it was. Have you ever
noticed that?
If you're not shaking your head this way
right now, you know what that means?
You've never done it. Shame on you. You
got an issue with somebody, you better
learn how to deal with them face to
face. Amen. Be a man. Be a woman. Speak
to people face to face. I don't care. I
know you don't want to do it. Nobody
wants to do that. But if you you got to
have some guts. You You got to have some
guts. This is not a joke. This is not a
We're not kidding around. It's the most
serious work there is on the planet.
There isn't more serious work than what
we do. There's nothing more important.
Your job is nothing. This is important.
nothing you've ever done touches top,
side, and bottom of how important this
is. And if you don't think it's
important enough to go to your brother
and challenge him over something, then
you're sadly mistaken and you need to
grow up and grow a little bit of a
backbone and go and speak to somebody.
If you know something, please, please do
that. And if you don't have enough guts
for that, then you can come to the
elders. But honestly, or me, but
honestly, that is not the way to handle
it. But at least that's better than
nothing.
Only just Revelation 12. I'm sorry. I'm
way off. I'm way off. Sorry, that was a
soap box. I back off of that, Rex. Calm
down. Revelation 12 and verse 10.
Then I heard a loud voice saying in
heaven now salvation and strength and
the kingdom of our God and the power of
his Christ has come. For the accuser,
this is the same word of our brethren
who accused them before our God day and
night has been cast out. So you get the
idea. Satan accuses in an assembly.
That's right.
He's not going to have a problem at all
on the day of judgment. Stand up. Hey,
you know what he did, what she did.
But we got an advocate. So calm down.
So beware. Before you accuse a child of
potential or present elder, be sure what
you're talking about. And the reason I
say that is because clearly there are
many, many people who've been accused
unjustly for crimes that they never did
and been convicted. I just looked
briefly. I looked this up the other day.
Here's just a brief list of those who
have now been found innocent that served
10 20 years in prison. Henry and Leon
McCullum, Lamar Johnson, Kimberly Long,
James Richardson, Marvin Anderson,
Sheldon Thomas, Steve Avery, Daryl Hunt,
Guy, Paul Morren, Kenny Adams, Kirk
Bworth, Rudolph Aldridge and Ruben
Carter, and Anthony Broadwater. And that
was a quick momentary look on the
internet. I don't know how many there
are. They're probably thousands named
falsely, accused
falsely,
and convicted and going to prison,
finally proved innocent, now out.
How many more are in there that were
innocent, nobody had a way to prove it?
You see, just because you make an
accusation don't mean it's true. But
people will believe it. Be careful about
your accusations. But if you got one,
deal with it. So, a potential elder must
have children that have no accusation.
Sounds like it would be easy to get
there, doesn't it? Cuz who would dare do
that?
Oh, people will dare. Number two,
an elers's children must be so faithful
that there is no dissipation. Now,
that's an interesting word. It says not
accused of dissipation. Dissipation.
It's an interesting word because what we
tend to make it mean and what it
probably primarily means is two
different things. We try to make it
about salvation because it means to
save. It does that comes from the root
that means to save or safe or well but
it really has the primary meaning of
unsveness
or wastefulness.
So the idea seems to be primarily used
that way. And let me give you an
example.
Ephesians 5:18 and do not be drunk with
wine and which is dissipation but filled
with the spirit. So what he's saying is
is you were excessive.
You're wasteful. It's not talking about
that you've now behaved in a way that
you're lost as much as you have behaved
in a way that is excessive and you've
gone overboard if you ended up getting
drunk. For sure. because they drank wine
pretty pretty uh regularly in in the
early days across the world. Now that's
pretty much gone now, but it was at
least in the church. 1 Peter 4:es 2
through4 at least most places I think.
Verse three, we I probably said what I
should have said there. Verse three, we
have spent enough of our past lifetime
in doing the will of the Gentiles when
we walked in lwdenness, lust,
drunkenness, realry. See, that's what I
mean. thought was pretty common. That's
the way we used to live our life.
Drinking parties and abominable
idolatries. Uh drinking parties, that's
uh primarily meaning if you wanted to
translate that about as loosely as you
can is after dinner drinks.
Uh verse four, in regard to these, they
think it's strange that you do not run
with them in the same food flood of
dissipation speaking evil of you. Again,
dissipation, wild proficy or
unrestrained indulgence is another way
to interpret it. But the idea is an
excessive behavior. In fact, the New
American Standard translates that verse
excess
of dissipation.
So beware before you accuse a child of a
potential elder or present elder, be
sure because like in John chapter 12,
Mary was unjustly accused of this very
thing.
You do realize that, right?
That's what Judas was accusing her of
dissipation,
right?
You say, "Well, how be disping?" No, no,
no. She had some perfume worth a year's
salary.
That's unusual right there.
Y'all got perfume worth a year's salary.
I want to know where you shop. But uh
perfume worth a year salary. Most
expensive stuff I've ever seen is
somewhere in the neighborhood of three
$400 a bottle. I've never seen anything
34,000. Little less 30 to 75,000. Have
you ever seen any worth a hundred
$100,000 a bottle? I
I don't know what they did what they did
to get that. Took a whole elephant and
drained it. I don't know what they did
to get that. So, um
Mary was accused of waste,
excessive waste
of dissipation.
Was she rightly accused when she poured
that out on Jesus?
Some would have thought, "Yeah,
no."
So, be careful when you accuse somebody
of excessive waste. You better know the
whole story. Do you know Mary's whole
story? That's another story. We're going
to have to stop there, but that's a
different thing. So, a potential elder
must have children that have no
accusation of dissipation. Number next,
an elers's children must be so faithful
that there is no insubordination
particularly an accusation of that.
Insubordination
comes from hoopasso and which is a root
of to place or rank under or to subject
and middle voice means just simply to
obey but it means not subject to being
ruled just not subject to it. Titus
1:10. For there are many insubordinate,
both idol talkers and deceivers,
especially those of the circumcision.
There are a lot of people who are
insubordinate. I don't tell you, I I
don't know if we've ever had more
insubordination we have right now. I
think seems like today there are people
who just will not will not do what
they're told.
Will not.
It's amazing to me. I I I'm old school.
Forgive me parents.
I'm old school. We whipped kids.
We whipped all our kids. The only thing
I did wrong is I didn't whip Bethany
enough.
But
you hear that, Bethany. Where's she at?
That's true. True. I didn't whip her
near enough, but but uh in subordination
uh
you just can't parents, young parent,
you can't allow your children to hit
you.
You hear me? Don't let them get away
with hitting you
ever.
And daddy's don't you dare let that boy
talk to his mama like
But you got to stop that.
Little boys have to be controlled. We're
dangerous once we get to be teenagers.
They have to be controlled. By 11 years
old, you better have that kid under
control. A little boy. Now, I don't know
about girls cuz I never have understood
them. I'm married to one and I still
don't know what they do and how that
works. But I'm just telling you straight
up,
uh, boys have to be controlled.
We were talking about it just before
church about how we can be wired, bounce
around all over the place. I I think I
saw one earlier bouncing around this
way. So, I mean, we're like that. I
mean, we really are. But when we go bad,
we go bad and danger is the word. So,
control is important with boys. That's
the reason sports are good. Amen. Walls,
sports are good. Kind of drain some of
that off.
Right, gentlemen?
Amen. It drains a little bit of that
off. Yeah. And because we're like that.
So insubordinate. You got to can't allow
certain things to happen. And they get
in their mama's face. You can't allow a
teenage boy to get in his mama's face.
Uh-uh.
No. You live outside.
I hope you enjoy living out there. 1st
Samuel 15:23. For rebellion is as the
sin of divination,
and insubordination is as iniquity and
idolatry, because you've rejected the
word of the Lord, and he has also
rejected you from being king. Wow. That
was to Saul.
Insubordination
as iniquity, and it's like idolatry.
Wow. So beware before you make an
accusation though of a child, of a
potential elder or a present elder. Be
sure about that. But Paul was unjustly
accused of insubordination
when he said, "Don't strike me, you
whited wall." Right? But he didn't know
he's the high priest. Had he known he
was the high priest, he wouldn't have
spoken that way.
There's just some things you don't do.
You don't tug on Superman's cape. You
don't spit in the wind.
Don't pull the mask on the Oong Ranger.
And you don't mess around with the
policeman.
You just leave them alone. Give them
room. There's a little circle around the
policeman. Walk around it.
Stay away from those guys.
Most of them are great. Some of them got
a little bit of a power thing going on.
Okay.
Am I wrong? Y'all looking at me funny.
You gotta gota watch them. Okay.
But the thing is is that it
insubordination in front of those guys
doesn't work out.
It never works out in front of those
guys cuz they want to show you who's
boss.
Excuse me. So, a potential elder must
have children. Never accused of
insubordination. So, that's the three
lessons. Just that simple stuff. Not
accused of of anything really,
especially not publicly. No dissipation,
wastefulness, no insubordination or
unsavveness. So,
let's just be reminded that
every child, just like every one of us,
possesses free will. Genesis 2:16,
"Every tree of the garden you may freely
eat." You get to do it. You can do
whatever you want. Joshua 24:15, "Choose
for yourselves this day whom you will
serve." Choose. You get to choose. John
7:17, "If any man wants to do his will,
he will know concerning the doctrine,
whether it is from God or I speak on my
own authority." You get to decide
whether you even want to do this. You
don't even have to want to go to church
anymore. Some of you young people going
to leave home and you will never go to
church again. I hate to say that, but
that is so true. I've seen it too many
times. There will be kids sitting here
tonight that will quit church.
Sad to say, we don't know who you are,
but it's because you can make that
decision. We have free will. We can
become whatever we wish to be. And
because of that,
we it still reflects on the parents
and whether or not they should be
leaders in the church. So if you're from
a Christian home, try to follow their
example. Try to be good.
See, in another way,
if they're not living for the Lord,
from my perspective, it was like that.
Neither one of my parents were living
for the Lord. That's why it looks so
good to live for the Lord. I'd seen that
way of life.
I wanted to see what the other was like.
So I was their example actually drove me
to him.
You can ignore a parent's example if you
wish. So just please the Lord. Tim
Keller,
I like Tim Keller. He's just passed away
not too long ago, but I think he's
pretty smart guy.
He said he would never forget this story
about one of his mentors, college
professor named Dr. Addison Leech. Dr.
Addison
Leech. I think the man's passed away
because Tim Keller is old and passed
away now. He said that there were two
young women at the college where he
taught where both these girls were very
bright and their respective parents
wanted them to get their master's degree
and go out and have careers.
But instead, they both wanted to become
Christians. And once they decided to
become Christians,
they wanted to become missionaries.
Excuse me.
And so their parents had a fit about it
because their parents were secular.
One of the mothers called Dr. Leech
thinking that Leech was one of the
reasons that the girls became,
in the words of the mother, religious
fanatics. Rather than pursuing the
course that they had hoped, getting a
career and having security, instead they
were going to go wildly off into the
blue and lose it all.
The other mother said, "We want our
daughters to get a master's degree,
start a career, and get something in the
bank so that they could have some sense
of security."
Well, with that, this is what Tim Keller
wrote about, what Leech responded to
those parents. Here's what he said. I
love this.
Please, just let me remind you of
something. We're all on a little ball of
rock called Earth and we're spinning
along through space at zillions of miles
per hour.
Even if we don't run into anything,
eventually we're all going to die.
Which means that under every single one
of us, there is a trap door that's going
to open up one day. And we're all going
to fall off this ball of rock
and underneath will either be the
everlasting arms of God
or absolutely nothing.
So maybe we can get a master's degree to
get some security.
But the biggest savings account in the
world cannot stop cancer.
It can't stop traffic accidents.
It cannot stop broken hearts.
It can't give you anything,
any of the things that only God can give
you.
He's the only significance you can ever
have.
He's the only love that you can get and
can't lose.
So where's this security you're talking
about?
So let's all learn that we make choices
and children's choices reflect on
parents and parents' choices reflect on
children and elders choices reflect on
congregations and preachers choices
reflect on preachers and their families
and all of you.
I think what I'm guess I'm really trying
to get at is the only thing that really
matters is your security in Christ.
And if you think you're going to get it
out there, young people, you'll go for
it.
You're just wrong.
There's your security.
There it is. You want security? There it
is.
You think you got someone somewhere? You
really think you could make yourself
live longer?
I've tried making myself taller.
You got almost no control except your
choice of either this or not this. It's
either this or not this.
It's this or not this. There it is.
And what you do will reflect on us and
your parents and or your children. It's
this or not this. And your children, by
the way, parents,
it's on you. You can claim, "Oh, they're
grown. It don't affect No. Yeah, you had
an effect on them." Well, I know now
they're 40, 50, 60 years old. Let me
tell you something. I understand that. I
get that. You think you don't have an
effect on your kids when they're 60
years old?
When you're dead, after you're cold
graveyard dead parents, you will still
have an effect on your children. Long
after you're dead, you will have an
effect on your grandkids.
It'll either be for good
or it won't.
And that's the truth. I'm not saying
that they have to all be faithful for
you to be an elder. I'm not I'm not
preaching that tonight. I'm just simply
saying what you do matters and it
matters generationally and it affects us
all. And what you do at church and how
you are with the rest of us affects the
rest of us. And we help raise each
other's children and we help keep
families together. And if you're
faithful to your mate, you know what?
I'm more likely to be faithful to mine.
If you're good to your kids, I'm more
likely to be good to my kids. If you're
good to your parents, I'm more likely to
be good to my parents. That's what we do
for each other. And we do that every
time we meet and every time we pray
together. It matters. And you have
choices. And so, if you're here tonight,
if you've not made the right choices,
forget everything I've said up to this
point except this. Make your choice.
Make your choice.
If you need the Lord, tonight's a good
time.
Make the choice. It's up to you. Won't
you come if you need to while we stand
and while we sing?
