as you can see we're we if you came in a
little late we didn't have contribution
in the normal place um that's not in the
scriptures where you have it by the way
but uh we will have an invitation but it
will not be a normal invitation we ask
you to remain seated so that the baskets
can be passed if you stand it's going to
get a problem with that so we need you
to remain seated unless you're
responding if you're responding the
invitation I'll be up here and we can
take care of you okay and then you'll
have to stand up to get up here
uh that's always the case you're always
invited to the gospel day or night
247 so take a look at your card if you
got your card take a look at it after
reading that first little thing um read
it um make sure that's applies to you
if it applies to you check it if it
doesn't don't check
it uh number two hopefully you've prayed
about all this we've had time you've had
time to pray about it think about it to
discuss it between each other husband
and wife within your family nothing's
being forced here it is strictly up to
you it's up to you whether you've
planned to give weekly or monthly to
give through automatic gifts or to give
by a check we have no requirement how
you do it if you give a gift of a small
amount or tenth that's up to you you
know your finances what we'd like you to
do in that first thing is check that
where it says I we also want to invest
in eternity lay up Treasures in Heaven
because that's really all this really
does the idea that you know you're going
to be blessed financially here you
likely will be but to say you know you
will be is not a fact you may end up
leaving this world today so that might
not happen but if you invest in heaven
that will be a blessing for you that's a
definite so hopefully you'll try to give
something of gift a tithe the tenth
whatever you can do and if it's weekly
and which we'd like you to put it down
weekly if you if you give once a month
put a little note there and put a month
write that in if you give every three
months right that in whatever you do
that third little check is for those of
you who want to do special things and we
want to recognize that you do that and
God bless you we have torch Mission we
have Panama we have Africa we have
Partners to Africa we have a lot of
different things we have on the mission
uh if you plan to do something like that
if you want to do it monthly write a
little note in put that amount in if you
plan to do it that that's fine if you
don't plan to do that that's fine it's
strictly up to you what you give that's
always the case if it is weakly you'll
add those two weekly things together you
can break it down to where it would look
weekly and then put a total down there
and you're going to have time to do that
because you fill this out while I'm
preaching okay take your time you got
all the time in the world if you want to
if you want to do the card now the one
thing I do need you to do though is when
you sign it don't just sign sign it we
need you to print it you can sign it too
but we have to have it printed the
reason we have to have it printed is
this is not my first
rodeo children have been known to
scribble in and we didn't know that they
were real or not real and numbers have
been written in before at churches that
I've worked with so if you're going to
do this we need to know who that was
literally okay not to make believe
name okay so scribbling your name fine
uh I know Keegan over here thinking
about writing some of y'all's names in
and uh and putting down 10,000 a week no
so additionally if you if you plan to
give to that additional Ministry try to
put that in the second place finally uh
add those sums together again print your
name if you will and for private see
sake uh don't flag it around turn it
upside down after you get through when
in this lesson turn up don't don't let
everybody know what you're doing and
then when the the basket comes around if
you put in a collection every week
that's a good time to do it that's what
we're doing and put the card in with
that please do this too we want to clean
up the auditorium we've got these cards
in every seat and all the pins in every
seat we could use your help and just
grab the ones around you if you will and
kind of collect those up throw them in
at the same time if you're not putting a
card in and you feel a little
embarrassed because you're not putting a
card in like somebody else don't because
nobody's going to know when you pick up
that card next to you and throw it in
nobody knows and by the way nobody
really is cares nobody's really looking
but just in case you feel embarrassed
because you didn't feel out a card
that's okay don't feel embarrassed now
for privacy sake we're trying to do it
this way so that people can keep their
dignity about whatever you
do sometime during this lesson though if
you will try to get that done let me
just say a couple of words about that
then I'm getting into the lesson uh last
year our average was $
12,222 71 a week that meant that the
average single individual average single
individual not married or not with
family uh widows whatever was about $30
a week and the average family gave about
$75 a week so our Faith goal today is to
have commitments kind of in the realm of
$2,222 71 cents which was last year and
that would mean that we at least commit
if you're single to around $30 a week
and if you're married to around 75 in
that neighborhood that would be our
faith goal it's what we really just have
to have uh Our Hope goal would be the
increase to the budget level that we've
got this year which is 16,00
25479 that's a 32% increase it's a big
increase but when you look at the real
numbers that means that people who were
giving about 30 would try to give around
40 and people who were giv about 75
would increase to around 100 in the that
ballpark that would be our hope goal our
love goal our over-the-top love goal
would be if we went up to roughly a
tenth on average because all those
numbers I just you does not reflect a
tenth on average with our members our
members are below on average a tenth if
we average roughly a tenth then the
single person would give on average
around $45 a week and the married family
couple would give on average around
$126 a week but you have to decide on
your finances what you can do whatever
you're to give please just tell us about
it it isn't a case of this is going to
be forced upon you or somebody's going
to call you up you didn't give your no
that's not going to happen we're not
this is to help the elders make good
plans we want to do good works sometimes
we're not sure we can and sometimes
things get left off and things that we
even plan to do in the budgets don't
always get done I don't know if you know
that the budget works this way it's a
goal sometimes things just get pushed
back and can't be done and that happens
regularly in churches so thank you for
whatever you're willing to plan whatever
you're willing to tell the elders about
and they're the ones going to look
through this this is going to be theirs
this is not for everybody to know okay
that's not going to happen like that so
please let us know uh and we're going to
let you know the total as soon as
possible okay uh maybe tonight if we can
get it done but it's likely maybe
sometime this week if the office has to
complete all that so please complete
your card while I'm
talking okay especially if you're bored
okay
so that's just kind of all those little
rules I just said there they
are that's it all I said I just wanted
to listen rather than read it we ought
to give for the promised blessings
because there are promised blessings
some will come in this life and some in
the next but I believe we should do that
but not out of coercion certainly not
out of a sermon to coer you it is not my
goal today to coer you never has been if
you know me I don't talk about giving
much anyway and so I just don't believe
in twisting anybody's Arm about these
kind of things because I have no idea
what your financial situation is and I
don't want to know unless you have to
tell me and I that's I think everybody
needs to have some privacy and everybody
their privacy needs to be respected but
I did hear of this oldtime preacher who
they in the old day you know we didn't
have plates and all this nice stuff he
had his hat so the preacher at the end
of the service would pass the hat right
and so one day this preacher in this
older congregation passed a hat and when
he got through the Hat came back to him
totally empty
so he led this
prayer oh Lord thank you for letting me
get my hat back from these folks that
don't even
give and then he said Lord I'm going to
try passing my hat one more time and
this time I hate to say this Lord but I
saw one of my male members this week
messing around with one of the women of
the
church you know I I don't want to say
anything thing Lord if that brother will
just put a 20 in when I pass his hat
back around I'll forget all about it and
I'll never say anything
Lord so he passed a hat he got three $20
bills and a $10 bill with a little note
if you won't say nothing I'll get you
the rest by
Tuesday I don't think we're supposed to
be coed we can receive over the top more
than we can receive did you hear that we
can receive more than we can receive in
blessings that may not sound like it's
true because it sounds like it's
redundantly wrong but here it is Malachi
chapter 3 says bring all the tithes in
the storehouse that there may be food in
my house and try me now in this says the
Lord of hosts if I will not open for you
the windows of heaven and pour out for
you such a blessing that there will not
be room enough to receive it you can't
even receive receive everything the Lord
sometimes will send your way in Luke
chapter 6 if you think that's just an
Old Testament thought Luke 6 and: 38
Jesus said give and it will be given to
you good measure press down shaken
together and running over you can't even
hold all he's going to send you and
it'll be given into your bosom and we
can re receive over the top more than we
can receive if you're not talking about
materially we can talk about it
spiritually look at this scripture it
says says in John chap 12 and verse John
chapter 16:2 it says I still have many
things to say to you but you cannot bear
them now and if you've been around the
church long enough you know that there's
times you can teach something and you're
talking to somebody and you can't teach
them that they're not ready to even hear
it they can't even receive it because
their knowledge is down here about that
subject or their attitudes down here
about that subject knowledge and
attitude prevents them from being able
to get this other so you have to talk to
them where they are it's like talking to
children they have to learn to walk
before they run they have to learn ABCs
one two 3es before they learn geometry
it's the same kind of Thing 1
Corinthians 3 and verse two I fed you
with milk and not with solid food for
until now you were not able to receive
it there's a time when you you can be
blessed over the top you can sit in a
series in a class or a sermon here great
things and it go right over your head
and you think that wasn't anything worth
listening
to that happens and we can go give over
the toop more than anyone expects that's
right we can give more would that be
something if we gave more than any of us
even talked about this morning what if
we went beyond that love gift that would
be amazing wouldn't it in Exodus 35: 4
through Exodus 36:7 is the is this text
about when they were told to give to the
Tabernacle but they gave too much it
says in verse six of Exodus 36 it says
Moses gave a commandment let neither man
or woman do any more work for the
offering of the sanctuary and the people
were restrained from bringing verse 7
for the material they had was sufficient
for the work to be done indeed too much
now wouldn't that be awesome if people
people gave so much that we said please
don't give anymore Marvin's worn out
counting the
money in Mark 12: 41-44 says now Jesus
sat opposite the treasury and saw how
the people put money into the treasury
and many who were Rich put in much he's
not disrespecting
that don't take it that way verse 42
then one one poor Widow came and threw
in two mits which make a
quadrant so he called his disciples to
himself and said to them assuredly I say
to you that this poor Widow has put in
more than all those who gave who have
given to the treasury for they have put
in out of their abundance but she out of
her poverty put in all that she had her
whole livelihood so it's not the amount
my brothers and sisters so don't think
well I don't compare to those numbers
that I talked about a while ago it's not
about that it's about you and your
situation and what you wish to do and
where your heart is nobody can tell you
where to put that I can throw ballp part
figures around but I can't tell you what
to do about that sort of thing in
appropriate for me to but from our text
want to look at three quick truths that
I think we should follow because this
little lad did it and I think it's
really there to give us simple advice
about our giving I really think that's
what this is for and we need to get in
so here we
go number
one my little gift my little is over the
top more than enough that's right my
little gift whatever my little gift is
is over the top more than enough when
it's all for
Jesus listen to it in verses one again
we'll read it again this is read earlier
very well but let me read it again and
these things Jesus went over the sea
after these things Jesus Went Over the
Sea of Galilee which is the Sea of
tiberias then a great multitude followed
him because they saw his signs which he
performed and those who were
diseased and Jesus went up on the
mountain and there he sat with his
disciples this is a good way to be seen
and heard now the Passover a feast of
the Jews was near the Jesus lifted up
his eyes and saying a great great
multitude coming toward him and he said
to Phillip where should we buy bread
that these may
eat now
initially the lad's lunch what was it
for it was a
lunch what was it
for apparently the kid wanted to go hear
Jesus apparently his mom or somebody
have him gather probably enough for him
to go what was he going to do go be with
Jesus all day long he had a lunch he's
going to be there all day to listen to
Jesus and so his food was all really for
Jesus everything he had I just want to
hear Jesus all of it that's it just want
to sit and listen to Jesus all day now
you find me a little boy a little girl
that wants to go to church that's a
blessing isn't it when they want to go
and they just want to hear about Jesus
they want to go to bible class and they
just want to hear about that's such a
blessing isn't it to see that I'm
telling you when it's just all about
Jesus you see because my little gift is
over the top more than enough if it's
all for Jesus now let me say something
here we do not have enough to do all
that we want to do or need to
do and that's okay this little boy did
not have enough to feed those
people I don't have enough to do all by
myself I don't have enough to do all
that we would like to do is a ministry
that's not possible I can't do it you
can't do it we can't do it we you say
well we don't have enough if all of us
we don't have enough that's cor we never
will have enough and yet it's more than
enough it's more than enough my little
is over the top more than enough when
it's all for Jesus but it's
also when it is given to Jesus you see
the little boy didn't actually give it
to Jesus initially little boy planned to
eat
it he planned to eat it so he could
listen to Jesus right but he ended up
giving it to Jesus that's different
that's real different that might mean I
ain't going to get to eat today
Mom but apparently he was okay with it
let's read verse again 5 through n again
then Jesus lifted up his eyes and seeing
a great multitude coming toward him he
said to Phillip where shall we buy bread
that these may eat but this he said to
test him for he himself knew what he
would do he knew what he was going to do
before this started verse 7 Philip
answered him 200 deneri worth of bread
is not sufficient for them that every
one of them may have a little apparently
that's about what they had in their
contribution verse vers eight one of the
disciples Andrew Simon Philip's brother
said to him there's a lad here somebody
been looking for
food there's the L that's kind of a sad
thing there's 5,000 people there and
there's only one person brought lunch
anyway so and there is a lad here and
they're out in the middle of nowhere
there's no there's no McDonald's that
would have saved the day but they didn't
have a McDonald's there's a lad here who
had five barley Loaves and two small
fishes and then he asked this question
but what are they among so
many if we try to do what we want
done by
ourselves without giving what we've got
to Jesus we will
fail all they had was not very much
graciously though this lad likely heard
the call we got to feed these people and
apparently the little boy came running
forward her Andrew somehow found him in
the crow
and it appears he may have been asked
but he was
willing so we ask you to give but you
got to be willing or it's not happening
right not forcing money out of your
pockets that's not happening and it was
given to Jesus you know here's the truth
for all of us my little
gift is over the top more than enough if
it's given to Jesus first if it's all
I've
got it's all I've got to give but then
if I give it to Jesus that's going to be
enough number
three my little is over the top more
than enough when it's blessed by
Jesus let's read it again then Jesus
said make the people sit down now there
was much grass in the place so the men
sat down and numbered about
5,000 and Jesus Took the Loaves and when
he had given
thanks so he blessed it he distributed
them to the disciples and the disciples
to those sitting down and likewise of
the
fish divided that up and as much as they
wanted now it isn't that they just
wanted like Lord supper food and they
got a everybody got a pinch that's not
what happened
now this multiplied you know that's true
because of what happens say for when
they were filled he said to his
disciples gather up the fragments that
remain so that nothing is lost we might
need to eat later you got to remember
Jesus was raised
poor he's in a poor family he knew what
it was to eat leftovers some of y'all
don't know about that okay verse 13
therefore they gathered them up and
filled 12 baskets with the fragments of
the five barley loaves which were left
over by those who had eaten 12 basket
fulls of fragment it multiplied so
here's what we need to
think stop
thinking start
believing stop thinking you got to
figure this whole thing out and start
believing God will work things
out this is not a business
amazing the lad likely could have only
fed maybe one
other but when Jesus blesses the gift we
give it can be
multiplied and feed 5,000 with 12
baskets left over so my little gift is
over at the top
more than enough whatever God wants to
do through this church if it is blessed
by Jesus now look at that it's such a
simple idea uh I'll never forget see I
heard this sermon about 50 years ago
Glenn Weekley preached this sermon
that's how old this it been back in the
drawer of my mind for 50 plus
years it's more than enough if it's all
I got
if I give it to
Jesus and He blesses it so don't sit
there and saywell I ain't put anything
on that carard because all I only got
It's like $3
do you put that $3 down and be proud of
it be proud of it because if it's all I
got if it's given to Jesus he's going to
bless it amen he's going to bless it and
if we gave over the top and exceeded all
our last year's giving and if we Ed this
year's budget if we we reach that love
goal that would be great but if we gave
all our little gift for Jesus it will do
do more than we expected if we give all
our little gifts to Jesus together we do
more than it's expected and if we give
all our little gift through Jesus he can
do more than is expected that we would
ever who would have thought that we
would have been involved in what we did
in the hurricane
we didn't have money for
that I don't remember how many thousand
we end up giving out what I can't read
that what is that $32,000 we gave out
that didn't come out of our
collection that's right that came from
other people other places
$32,000 we gave out to the needy around
there so when you when you're in the
right place at the right time and you
get give your little God blesses it and
you can do more than you expect that you
can do amen others have given more than
was ever
expected Israel in the wilderness they
were in the wilderness and they had more
to build that Tabernacle than was needed
and they gave it until they had say stop
a missionary Jim Elliot back in
1956 with five other missionaries found
a way to land a plane on a riverbank to
try to reach the harami people of
Ecuador and a few days later they were
all killed by
Spears but about a month or two before
that he had written in his little diary
this quote that has been quoted a
million times since then he is no fool
who gives what he cannot keep to gain
what he cannot lose Amen to
that can't keep it anyway gentlemen
can't keep it anyway ladies
you ever hear of a guy he was a minite
when he was born back in 1874 1874 on a
farm in Ontario he was the second of 11
children pretty good sized
family he was 18 when he got a job at a
grocery store in Fort Erie later he
invested in a Cheese
Company in Buffalo he ended up having a
move to Chicago to kind of watch the
branch in Chicago
working for and with these other guys
but his Partners while he's in Chicago
beat him out of all of his
money he was stranded in Chicago in
1903 him a businessman with $65 to his
name and he was deep in debt on top of
that a friend counseled him he said um
you need to give God your
business he thought about that he said
well if God wants to run a chees
business he can do it he'll be the
senior partner and I'll work for
him from that moment he says his company
began to grow and
prosper James Lewis craft president of
craft Cheese
Company largest Cheese Company in the
world every day every week gave 25% of
his income
he said this the only investment I ever
made which is paid consistently
increasing dividends is the money that
I've given to the
Lord I need the servers to come forward
and and sit down up here thank
you going to remind you of a couple of
things while the Serv come
forward I need all the cards and the pin
taken up in a minute so if you can reach
the one ones around you that be helpful
send a Ken down the aisle picking up
some extra ones I need you to remain
seated as much as
possible while we get them in
position we're not going to
stand unless you need to come
forward I hope you've had time to fill
out your paper card you can do it later
if you missed it can do that
okay let's
pray Holy Father it's up to
you we're doing our best to try to serve
you and help the elders plan our future
together but it's up to you
we believe that our little is enough We
Believe like that lad you can do
whatever you want to with it if we give
it all to
you and you bless it so we ask you to
bless us today by allowing us to bless
others it's in the name of Jesus we pray
amen
