but it's really not about money today I
know that's what I'm going to talk about
But I'm not really talking about money
today I'm really talking about
perspective Have you ever been to the
moon never been there Would you go if
you
could no Uh wouldn't go One of the bad
things about the moon do you know what
it is the really bad thing about the
moon is when you get there you can't
tell what you're looking
at That's right You can't tell what
you're looking at when you stand on the
surface of the moon and you look out
there You don't know how far that hill
is away It could be 3 kilometers It
could be 50 kilometers and you won't
know the difference Oh wait It could be
3 miles or it could be 50 miles I'll
speak English now Okay So or or that
that uh that crater over there it could
be 50 yards or it could be 150 yards and
you can't tell Do you know why you can't
tell because there are no trees there
There are no cars there There's no
people there There's nothing in your
brain that you compare it with So what
you don't have is
perspective You have to have some
information to have
perspective And without the proper
information you can't tell much about
what's going on around you You don't
know how far I am away if you didn't
know how large a person was as tall as I
am I'm
6'5 and you might not know that from
where you're
sitting Right so perspective but since
you know a few things it affects the way
you see me Right that's the way it is
Perspective So this lesson is about
perspective
not really about money But in that
discussion of money you know we kind of
I think we kind of feel like that couple
that was planning their budget and they
were thinking about their money and the
husband says to his wife "Okay honey
let's start with the basic
necessities Food clothing and shelter
Pick any
two." It's kind of the way we sometimes
feel How are we going to do it now pick
any two Those are
the research says the promise for richer
or for
poorer causes a lot of issues in young
marriage In fact uh the associative of
of bridal consultants say
67% of those married less than a year
have serious conflicts often over money
Almost 70%
It's estimated the financial problems
contribute to at least 20 to 40% of all
divorces So if you aren't in control of
your money most sociologists say you're
out of control elsewhere in your life as
well So it's a indicator of the way you
live
If we think we can escape
uh money issues by making more money let
me let you in on something You never get
to escape money issues No matter how
much money you make you still got to
learn how to deal with it You still got
to figure out what you're going to do
with what you've got And whether you
have a little or you have a lot you have
to learn how to manage your money Now
that's just a truth And if you don't if
you've never sat down and tried to work
out a budget you never tried to manage
your money you put bills and stick them
in a drawer and forget about them you
are exactly the person I'm talking to
right at this moment You have to learn
how to do this because Proverbs 6:1-5
tells us that we're not to owe to a
friend And then Romans 13:8 says we're
not to
owe We we're really not supposed to get
in the debt that we tend to get into It
was never meant to be this way A budget
will help you It will not solve all your
problems but some financial counselors
say that a budget creates between 15 and
40% more disposable
income Just by having a budget you will
be better off Even if you don't
understand how that would be put it on a
piece of paper put it on your computer
put it on your cell phone put it
somewhere Have a budget Take care of
business Get control of your money Now
you say "Well that sounds like it's
about money today." Not really but
you'll see where I'm going in just a
minute So let's walk through a few
little points that I think we ought to
pay attention to To handle my money
properly I should v view it vertically
Here's a scripture for you We're going
to walk through these rather quickly
Psalm 50:10-12 says "For every beast of
the forest is mine." This is God talking
The animals in the woods they're his And
the cattle on a thousand hills all of
those cows that grow up in Texas are his
They're not Texans Verse 11 I know all
the birds of the mountains every bird
you ever have outside all the wild
beasts of the field they're all mine
Verse 12 If I were hungry I wouldn't
tell you For the world is mine in all
its
fullness It's all his We need to view
our possessions our money in light of
that The second little
truth to handle my money properly I
should earn it
honestly Yes it matters If you cheat on
a business deal you're
wrong It's evil It's not a little thing
If you lie in a business deal it's wrong
It's
evil Don't lie Don't cheat Don't do
someone wrong Don't make out your
whisbang is better than it is Tell them
the truth If you're selling an old car
tell them about what's wrong with the
what whatever the whatchamacallit this
broker Tell
them Proverbs 13:11 Wealth gained by
dishonesty will be dis diminished Maybe
you're in the trouble you're in because
you haven't been honest But he who
gathers by labor will increase Hard work
increases you Simple concept Honest hard
work Earn it honestly Number three to
handle my money properly I should
utilize it effectively Proverbs
27:23-27 says this "Be diligent to know
the state of your flocks Pay attention
to what you do Utilize it effectively
Know the state of your flocks and attend
to your herd Don't just leave them out
there Go take care of them." Verse 24
for riches are not
forever You can spend it all Even a
billionaire can spend it all
You just buy billion-dollar stuff Nor
does a crown endure to all generations
Verse 25 When the hay is removed and the
tender grass shows itself and the herbs
of the mountains are gathered in the
lambs will provide you clothing When
they do better you do better And the
goats the price of the field When they
do better you do better You shall have
enough goats milk for your food When
they do better you do better And for the
food of your household and the
nourishment of your maidervants will
ultimately utilize it effectively Pay
attention to your business Work at it
hard and if you pay attention to it and
utilize it more effectively you will do
well Simple
ideas
Number to handle my money properly I
should multiply it faithfully Proverbs
21:es 5 and 6 The plans of the diligent
lead surely to
plenty You get a lot more But those of
everyone who is hasty surely to poverty
If you get in a hurry to make a lot of
money you're probably going to lose it
all Getting treasure by a lying tongue
is the fleeting fantasy of those who
seek death Wow That's a threat That's
not just a statement That's a warning
across the bow You get in too big of a
hurry and you get these fantasies in
your mind Oh and we'll be worth millions
if we do this Yeah watch out Watch out
So multiply by being faithful Just be
faithful Be
faithful That's how you multiply Number
next to handle my money properly I
should save it strategically
Proverbs 21:20 "There is desirable
treasure and oil in the dwelling of the
wise but a foolish man squanders it He
didn't have anything left over." It's
not wrong to have stuff in your
cupboards folks It's not wrong to have
money in the bank It's not wrong to have
extra that you don't actually need It is
the right thing to do Save it
strategically It isn't just to have it
and hoard it but it is important that
you do save There will be a rainy day
Number
next to handle my money properly I
should give it
generously I don't ne need to do this
just for us my little crowd my little
family It's not just for me Proverbs
3:es 9 through10 says "Honor the Lord
with your possessions." That means even
sometimes give up the things you have
and with the first fruits of your
increase That's profit
first fruits of that Verse 10 so your
barns will be filled with plenty And
well that's interesting How does giving
away my stuff end up making my barns
full of plenty well this is a promise of
God And your vats will overflow with new
wine So that means you're going to have
more than you need You ever been in your
attic you have more than you
need Give it generously
And then finally to handle my money
properly I should enjoy it carefully
Yeah he gave it to you to enjoy That's
right He wants you to have fun That's
right He wants you to laugh That's right
He wants you to go to sleep and feel
good He wants you to have your stuff
Absolutely That is an absolute teaching
of the Bible If you've heard that oh
well God wants us all to be poor That's
not the teaching of the scriptures I'm
just telling you straight up it's not
But listen to this How do you enjoy it
carefully listen to what it says to
someone who has a little bit 1 Timothy 6
17-19 Command those who are rich Now how
rich do you have to be to be rich well
everybody in America is rich compared to
the rest of the world So I don't know
Command those who are rich in this
present age not to
beaughty Quit looking down on people who
don't have what you have Nor to trust in
the uncertainty of riches Don't trust
your money Trust your Lord but in the
living God who gives us richly all
things to enjoy He wants you to enjoy
this stuff He made it for
you Verse 18 let them do good that they
be rich in good works ready to give
willing to share Absolutely That should
be a part of who you are So enjoy it
carefully Verse 19 storing up for
themselves a good foundation for the
time to come that they may lay hold on
eternal life What you're really wanting
to do is do enough good so that the next
place is even better than this place
Right amen You enjoy it more You're glad
you put something in And then over there
you go well I'm glad I did that Amen
Glad I did that So that's that's the
lesson today But it's not the lesson
That's the lesson That's not the
lesson That's the lesson but it's not
the lesson I I know the scriptures say
we read a moment ago Matthew 6:19-21 "Do
not lay up for yourselves treasures on
earth Moth and rust are destroyed
Thieves break in and steal Lay up for
yourselves treasures in heaven No moth
no rust Because where your treasure is
there is your heart." Luke 12:21 says
"So is he who lays up treasure for
himself and is not rich toward God."
It's not about the money and it's not
about the
stuff It's about perspective and
attitude Larry Bquette who y'all most of
you know did a lot of this He's kind of
like Dave Ramsey before Dave
Ramsey He said "The only difference
between saving and hoarding is
attitude It's your perspective."
perspective We just need the right
perspectives And without the right tree
at the right distance you can't tell how
far away that thing is You got to have
something that gives you perspective or
you're on the moon and you can't tell
where you
are You need
perspective This lesson's about
perspective Tony Compo Uh he died just
last year just a few months ago He died
on November the 19th last year He was 89
when he died Some of you know who I'm
talking about some of you don't Born in
1939 he's
89 He's a professor of sociology at the
Eastern University He was known as a
Christian author and a speaker a
preacher He he even was an adviser
spiritual adviser to President Bill
Clinton You may remember that May
remember
that for many years uh he wrote a lot of
books and he taught and so he and his
wife made a good bit of money back So
I'm talking back I'm not talking
recently I'm talking back in probably
the 80s He was making a h 100,000 at
least a year Making good money in the
80s That was good money in the 80s I
promise you And uh he's teaching and
writing and speaking and his wife he and
his wife sat down and they discussed
their financial situation and their
personal values their
perspective And they decided they didn't
need a h 100,000 a
year They decided that they could live
quite happily on 25,000 a
year And so they decided to give the
rest
away And they committed to investing in
poor people
They gave to the poor of their community
They gave a lot to Haiti And they gave a
lot to the Dominican Republic because
what was important to them was not new
cars or more toys but helping people
That's called
perspective They had a little
perspective on life They saw the long
view I'm not saying you have to do what
they did I'm just saying that's what
that is Another man took his daughter
one day and he took her to the trash
dump You ever been to the trash dump
i've been to the trash dump Do you know
there are a lot of eagles up there
there's a lot of rats But there's a lot
of eagles up there and they're eating
the rats Okay And and leftover there
Y'all should go sometime If you never go
you should go on one of these big mounds
It's amazing actually But he took his
daughter to a trash dump and he wanted
her to observe the waste He said they
saw a plastic swimming pool Y'all ever
had one of those a barbecue pit You ever
had one uh lawn chairs You ever had lawn
chairs barbie
dolls You ever had a Barbie doll uh
bicycles You ever had a bicycle in gym
skateboards They still do that right
skateboards Toy Stos You ever seen a toy
stove uh radios There were radios all
over TVs Broken TVs Stuff of your dreams
right and they were scattered around
Some of them were crushed And then they
left the trash dump He's He's not saying
anything He's just showing her this
stuff And so on the way home they pass
one of those places where they crush
cars You ever seen one of those where
they just and just crush it down and as
they're sitting there he looks over
leans over his daughter and says "The
car we're sitting
in will be one of those
soon Everything we
own everything you have will be junk
Your clothes you're wearing right now
will be
junk Your underwear may already be
but will be
junk Everything we
have everything we
have will be junk That's called
perspective Do you have it is everything
about the stuff and the
money Can you see that we're all
going you need
perspective to see with God's eyes what
we seem to not be able to
see Money is not the problem and money
is not the solution Our perspective and
our hearts are the problem and our
perspective and our hearts are the
solution Pay attention If you're not
right with the Lord get right with the
Lord See everything in light of this
little book and all of a sudden
everything will start making a lot more
sense to you and you'll be glad you did
later
