so I think it's good to Define sometimes
your terms and I'm not sure that we
always understand what we're talking
about for example
stewardship uh that comes from two
different words Stig which meant house
or Hall and we are which meant Ward or
guard or guardian or keeper so a house
Ward it refers to the idea of a
household
uh person who would it was their duty to
make sure that there was food and drink
available when there was meal and then
that expanded to other domestic uh needs
in managing a household particularly a
large
household the word
responsibility has this meaning a duty
to deal with or have control over
something or someone thus being
accountable or to be for blame for
something or so someone as one that has
the authority to make management
decisions so that's what we mean by
stewardship is
responsibility I think it's common for
people to want Authority without
responsibility I think there are those
who would want to put responsibility on
you without giving you
Authority that's the reason we actually
rebelled against England as you recall
putting responsibility on someone
without any form of authority to get it
done that's the reason we left them but
the reverse is also a problem and that
is literally some want Authority but
they don't want any
responsibility and there's reasons that
we do that some think that's right
because they think
circumstances are really responsible not
us there's been a lot of study done in
that field people La it if your
circumstance is your
excuse well you don't know what I've
been through and so we we thought for a
long time and psychologists thought for
a very very long time that really your
circumstance was your excuse that how
you turned out related directly to your
circumstance in life but actually
Stanton Sam now and Samuel
yason were psychiatrists back in
1950s and they decided to test that out
because they believed it was true too
they believe your circumstance was your
you really didn't have as much
responsibility because you've been
through a hard thing and so they studied
and they thought that crime obviously
would therefore be caused by
environmental aspects they thought they
were being wise in that they conducted a
17-year study so this is not a mile
thing this reached to nearly the 70s in
their study they tested 250 inmates who
they believed were in prison because of
the circumstances of their life that is
not what they found they thought it
would be their environment their poverty
their oppression those things would be
the reason they were in prison that is
not what they found out at all they were
shocked to find out and this is not this
it talked about much today because
that's everybody wants to believe the
other and they found out that all of it
pointed to each man had made wrong moral
choices and that was
it you want to know the reason wrong
moral
choices every tub sits on its own
bottom some want to blame your
circumstance others want to blame others
the reason I'm the way I am the reason I
am not to be held responsible it's
everybody else's fault Bernard L Brown
Jr president of kingstone Regional
Health Community
Center uh and been over a hospital he
worked at in uh
Georgia where a patient had knocked over
a cup of water that was on one of those
little tables you know those little
tables that roll around knocked a cup of
water off the table and it poured out on
the floor
well the patient was afraid well if I
get out to go to the bathroom now I'm
all to slip and fall I going to call the
nurse ask the nurse to clean it up the
nurse came to clean it up well actually
came in didn't know what she was in
there for you know how they beep in
anyway the nurse came in and said um
actually that spills bigger than we're
supposed to take care of housekeeping is
supposed to take care of large spills
we're just supposed to take care of you
know spill a bit on the table so she
said let me call house keeping called
housekeeping housekeeping came up and
said no that spill is too small we only
take care of large spills you as a nurse
should be taking care of a little cup of
water that Spilled Out on the floor that
got into a big argument over whose
responsibility it was to clean up a cup
of water that's spilled on the floor the
patient sat there patiently for a long
time finally reached over and grabbed
the water jug poured the whole thing out
on the floor and said there is that big
enough for you to take care of they said
yep okay we'll take care of
that everybody else is responsible but
me that's a problem too it's scary
actually though about how many people
are are
irresponsible you've probably seen
videos on the internet where people
died trying to be cute falling off
building
various things some find out the hard
way how irresponsibility can it cost you
your job that's right you can be fired
because you weren't responsible an
interesting story came up about a
six-year-old his name was Casper he was
flying from Philadelphia to meet his
grandmother in Fort Mars here in
Florida and so little Casper being six
had had to be spirited around by the
Spirit uh attendant Spirit Airlines
attendant and so to put on the plane to
get down to his grandmother whose name
was
Ramos uh Maria
Ramos but when Maria Ramos went to the
airport
in Miami I mean in Fort Myers there was
no one there to get off the plane
the little boy wasn't there so
immediately she's pretty up in arms she
says how did that happen did they get
him off the plane did they let him go by
himself did he jump in the wrong plane
by himself what happened as it turned
out he was in Orlando 160 miles away and
she says no no no don't fly him I'll go
get him so she got in her car and she
went and got him the gate agent had been
been assigned to escort little Casper to
the departing flight in Philadelphia to
go to Fort Myers and had
accidentally put him on a plane to
Orlando she is no longer
employed it can
happen some find out the hard way how
irresponsibility can cost a life and it
does judge
mchelen said to a defendant named Kevin
mohanan you just don't get it it's
obvious to me that you feel Justified
you don't take any responsibility for
the outcome of your
actions and then issued a sentence of 25
years to life convicted of second
deegree murder killing a 20-year-old
Caitlyn Gillis a passenger in a car and
how it happened is they accidentally
turned into mahan's driveway to find a
friend's house which was nearby and they
had stopped at the wrong house in
response
mahannas mahanan excuse me shot at the
car killing kaln
Gillis he took the stand his own defense
to say it was an
accident the judge was
unconvinced the judge said to
mahaman the first thing you do on the
witness stand is you make a joke to the
jury about them finally being able to
see your face you senselessly took the
life of kin Gillis and you have the gall
to sit here and talk about how you plan
to finish up the work on your house and
race Motocross in the future you don't
deserve that what would make you think
that you deserve those things the judge
wasn't having it even though they asked
for leniency they got on the defense put
up a argument for leniency and the judge
simply said any remorse you have isn't
for the harm you caused the only regret
you have is that you finally are facing
the consequences for your actions you
murdered kaln Gillis you shot at a car
full of people and you didn't care what
would happen and you repeatedly lied
about it you deserve to spend the
maximum time in prison allowed under our
law and I don't make this decision
because it's easy I make it because it's
what deserved I make it because it's
what's just kayn's family had said she
was a kind beautiful soul and a ray of
light to anyone who is lucky enough to
know
her cost a life responsibility is
serious young people responsibility is
serious when we talk about you getting
to drive a car and not understanding how
serious it is I don't think sometimes
kids understand I was a school bus
driver at 16 I don't think they
understood followers of God have always
been stewards who were responsible
judges 19:20 let all your Deeds be my
responsibility
responsibility 1 Chronicles 9:27 they
had the responsibility in charge of
opening and closing interesting that is
about potentially a guy that was called
a
rooster that worked in the
Temple and so the rooster crowed three
times in the morning and they shouted
all the priests prepare a sacrifice
their second shout was all the Levites
to their stations and the third shout
was all the Israelites come to worship
and then he unlocked the door to the
temple wonder if that's what they were
talking about in Matthew
26:34 that he crowed three
times especially when you couldn't find
a chicken in Israel almost little less
in Jerusalem I want to give you now from
our story just about seven little truths
let's walk our way through it what I
think we need to pay attention to when
it comes to our
responsibility stewardship is
responsibility and it's connected to
assets it says in verse 14 again for the
kingdom of heaven is like a man
traveling to a far country who called
his own servants and delivered his Goods
to them later you hear that's talents
but it was his Goods his assets stewards
are stewards of people and of things you
are a steward of people and of things
those are your
assets that's your
responsibility number
two stewardship is responsibility and
it's connected to to Authority in verse
15 it says and to one he gave so he had
the authority he gave the authority he
gave five talents to another two and to
another one to each according to his own
ability immediately he went on his
journey stewardship is over you may
think I have no power everybody in this
room has a power everybody in this room
has Authority
everybody quit thinking people are in
authority over me that's true everybody
is under Authority but everybody has
power everything you call yours it is
yours and you have power over it every
person that's within your family to some
degree even you children have authority
over them to a degree everybody has
power everybody has Authority it isn't
all just leveled at the government we
all have power and you're responsible
for it because what you have your
clothes your shoes your toothbrush is
yours you're over it and if your
toothbrush is nasty it's your problem
okay number
three stewardship is responsibility and
it's connected to abilities he goes on
to say verse 15 I'll read that again and
to one he gave five talents to another
two and to another one to each according
to his own ability and immediately he
went on the journey then he who had
received the five talents went and
traded that's an ability he had traded
with him and made another five talents
that's an ability he had verse 17 and
likewise he who had received the two
gained he didn't trade apparently he
gained two more also but he who had
received the one went and dug in the
ground and hid his so each one obviously
had certain abilities and the master
knew which one had more abilities than
the others isn't that interesting he
absolutely knew he knew the one Talent
guy didn't have much not a lot on the
ball there it is according to your
abilities so St stewards and you're all
stewards I'm a steward stewards have
varied abilities and skills so the idea
that we all have the same ability and
skills you know better than that let's
go outside and play basketball for a
little
while I know I'm going to make some of
you tall guys look bad but no you you
have certain abilities and that's
it that's it number three follows number
four stewardship is responsibility
connected to accountability verse 19
after a long time the Lord of those
servants came and settled accounts with
them if you have a stewardship which you
do you have a
boss over everything you are Steward
over there's a boss above you over
that no one is out of that so well I'm
an independent I own my own business you
got lots of
bosses everybody has a boss above them
everybody is under Authority everybody
that has Authority is under Authority
you have a boss above you and they will
hold you accountable you say well who's
my boss by my own company the debts your
company owes the responsibility it has
to its p uh clients to get whatever it
is done done we all have
responsibilities and people can hold us
accountable and choose not to even pay
us there you go number
five stewardship is responsib ility and
it's connected to
accomplishment look at verse 20 so he
who had received five talents came and
brought five other talents saying Lord
you delivered to me five talents look I
have gained so he actually accomplish
something I have gained five more
talents besides them verse 21 his lord
said to him well done why would he say
Well done if he hadn't done it so the
Lord's aware of what you're doing
well done good and faithful servant you
have been Faithful over a few things I
will make you ruler over many things
enter into the joy of your lord verse 22
he also who had received two talents
came and said Lord you delivered me two
talents look I have gained two more
talents beside them his lord said to him
well done so he did gain he had
accomplished something and he
acknowledged that he had accomplished
something well done good and faithful
service you've been Faithful over a few
things I'll make you rule over many
things enter into the joy of your lord
so
stewardship get stuff
done and is supposed to be recognized by
those over you the Lord will definitely
do it but not every time are you in
employment are you going to be
recognized you're going to do some good
things for your company and by the way
it's okay for you to do really good
things for your company and not be
recognized guess what join the crowd
happens to us
all happens to us all but
occasionally they see it and
occasionally you'll be rewarded well
done it be words or maybe a piece of
paper or money or maybe a position well
done accomplishments that's a part of
stewardship number
six stewardship is responsibility and
it's connected to Attitudes it's
connected to attitudes he said well I
don't know why I never get more it might
be your attitude look at verse 24 then
he who had received the one Talent came
and said Lord I knew you to be a hard
man wow so you notice how critical he is
of the one above him Lord I knew you to
be a hard man reaping where you have not
sown I bet there are those of you who've
had bosses you didn't
like maybe it wasn't the boss that had
the
problem
ooh hope that doesn't sting you too much
but it's always the boss that has the
attitude right it's never the
employee it's the boss that needs to
have a better attitude I knew you to be
a hard man reaping where you have not
sown Gathering where you have not
scattered seed basically he's accusing
his boss being a crook I knew you were a
crook now imagine now you got to
remember this is the Lord do you think
the Lord's a
crook no he's not do you think that he
misjudged his
boss yes he did do you think that
happens to any of us verse 25 and I was
afraid right I was afraid and went and
hid your talent in the ground he wasn't
afraid he was lazy and he's wicked do
you hear me he used that as an excuse
that was a lie how do I know that
because of what his Lord Master said to
him I was afraid and went hid it you
tell it in the ground look there you
have what is yours but his Lord answered
and said to him you Wicked and lazy
servant you knew that I reap where I am
not s you knew I was a
crook and gathered where I'm not
scattered you knew that about me you
knew
me so you ought to have deposited by
money in a safer place than in a napkin
in the
ground you should have put it at the
bank so that wasn't a
problem if the bank ain't safe we're all
sunk
right so you could have deposited my
money in the bankers and at my coming I
would received back my own with interest
what were you really thinking you were
thinking maybe he'll forget about
that that's over there and that napkin
in the ground maybe he'll even forget he
gave me that
you're a wicked and lazy servant
stewards are to be positive and upbeat
and motivated we work for the Lord we
work for our employees we are over
people we are over things we have
responsibilities and we need to have a
better attitude this idea that everybody
else is the crook and we're the straight
guy is out the door get a better
attitude amen have a better attitude you
haven't done everything right I bet
there's a few pens at your house that
came from where you
work stewardship is responsibility
connected to
abundance look at verse
28 therefore take the talent from him
and give it to him who has 10 talents
wait a minute he's got 10 talents why do
you need another one for to everyone who
has more will be given folks this is an
absolute rule of thumb you wonder why
the guy who's really up there making a
lot they keep giving him more money cuz
he's out working
you he's out working you he's
outperforming you quit blaming the
business for paying a guy way above you
more than he's paying you he's outw
working you some of these CEOs are
working 80 hours a
week maybe more
that's what he's recognizing here for to
everyone who has more will be given and
he will have abundance but from him who
does not have even what he has will be
taken away you keep sloughing off we're
going to remove you you're not going to
have a job verse 30 and cast the
unprofitable servant into outer
Darkness there will be weeping and
nashing of teeth so
stewards who do well get raised up
higher and those those who do
poorly get pushed out the
door so you may not like these rules but
these are the rules this is stewardship
rules 101 this is the rules I mean
basically you can't argue with it
stewardship is responsibility and it's
connected to assets you have things you
are responsible for you have people
you're responsible for it is connected
to Authority you have authority over
things and you have authority over
people people it's connected to
abilities the limit of what you are over
is connected to what you can handle
whether you like that or not it is tends
to be true in almost every circumstance
so develop your abilities if you want
more accountability you are accountable
to the people that are over you you're
even accountable to the people that are
under you but you're definitely
accountable to those that above you and
the Lord is the one above us all and
we're all accountable to him he has
every right to call us in on Judgment
Day and say what did you
do it's also connected to our
accomplishments which are connected to
our attitudes which is connected to our
abundance to be a good Steward is to be
responsible that's the lesson and in
what in everything what am I to be
responsible in in everything I'm
responsible yes in my giving but I'm
responsible in my serving I'm
responsible in my words I'm responsible
with my actions I'm responsible with
what I think about I'm responsible for
my life I'm responsible for it all
nobody else is going to stand in for me
on the day of judgment unless it's the
Lord Jesus himself and say I my blood
applies nobody else nobody else can fix
it he's the only
one Daniel Webster was out was one of
the most outstanding Statesman lawyers
orders of his time and he was in a 25
Nation leadership uh banquet in his
honor one of the men at the ba banquet
asked Mr Webster
sir what is the greatest thought that
ever entered your mind and this is a
brilliant
man and he was great at everything he
did what is the greatest thought that
ever entered your mind you ever thought
about that what's the greatest thought
that ever entered a great man's mind
here it is here's what he
said the greatest thought that ever
entered my mind was the thought of my
responsibility to
God at that he began to
weep and he excused himself from the
banquet and went outside for several
minutes
crying he gained control of himself
came back
in and talked for 30 minutes on man's
responsibility to
God is that the way you feel Connie Mack
some of youall probably know who Connie
Mack is Connie ma from 1862
1956
7,765 games he's a manager in baseball
he's called the Grand Old Man of
baseball
he has the most wins of any manager ever
3,731 games his teams
won in his career which lasted from 1981
to
1950 he was considered the
top in asking him what the secrets of
his success was what was it that he was
able to lead men to inspire men what was
it when his team clenched the pennant
he Saidi gave my two best picturers 10
days off to rest up for the world series
one spent his days off at the Ballpark
the other one went fishing and they
ripped him apart but they
won both performed brilliantly he never
criticized a player he said in front of
another did you hear that
he never criticized a player in front of
another
player and when he did talked to
somebody about what they had done wrong
in his opinion he always waited 4
hours so that when he spoke to them all
the emotion was out of him he was
calm the first three years as a manager
in the league he finished sixth seventh
and eighth most people have been happy
about that but he took the blame and he
demoted himself to the miners until he
learned how to handle
men and when he came
back that's when he became the most
successful baseball manager maybe in
history he said it's secret to not worry
he said this I discovered that worry was
threatening to wreck my career as a
baseball manager
I saw how foolish it was and I forced
myself to get so busy preparing to win
games that I had no time left to worry
over the ones that were already lost you
can grind grain with water that is
already gone down the
creek
responsibility be responsible but think
about what you're doing how it affects
others because
ultimately whether you like it or
not God's going to hold us
responsible we are his stewards and we
are already responsible and if you
really want to learn something during
this campaign if you will God is able
about stewardship and about how we give
you need to learn this simple principle
I'm not going to hold you accountable
our elders are not going to hold you
accountable we're not going to call you
in and said why aren't you giving more
that's not going to happen
but there's somebody looking over your
shoulder it's just not
me got nothing to do with me he's
looking over my shoulder and I'm
accountable let's begin at the right
place get ourselves straight with the
Lord amen
