good evening
church for those who do not know me uh
my name is Harrison Cowan I am a deacon
here at Creek Side Church Christ um I am
the husband of matilla Cowan and H
father to Lucas and Harper Cowan um
thank you all um especially the elders
and Rex for giving me this opportunity
tonight uh to come speak to you um on
the topic that is uh near and dear to my
heart um I hope I do it justice please
know that if I say something uh wrong it
was not out of malice um I am a student
of the Bible every day um so I did not
on purpose leave anything out or add
anything to it um but please come see me
um and we can definitely have a have a
chat about it but tonight what I wanted
to uh talk about is um service in God's
church or serving the lord and how what
I want to do tonight is of course start
off with a good definition of what
service is um and then I want to talk
about what service looks like to the
Christian um then I want to look at what
the Bible says um service what the Bible
says about service look at maybe some
obstacles that a Christian or someone
might have uh when trying to uh serve in
God's Church um and um see if we can
talk through how we as Christians can be
better servants to God um so if you
would um you know bear with me I am
going to give you guys some time back I
am not long- winded um I plan to uh be a
respector of your time uh but I am so
thankful for this opportunity um so
let's start off by deter by defining the
word service okay um well this is what I
want to talk about the definition of
service um let's talk about some
different types of service as well um
definitely not a allinclusive list um I
just uh brought forth three um you know
of the most common one common types of
service that we may see in our lifetime
um again Bible references to Christ why
Christians don't serve like the Bible
says and how we should
serve all right so uh
this definition I got from just the
Oxford dictionary and it says service is
the action of helping or doing work for
someone basic basic definition easy to
understand but when it comes to uh being
a Christian I came up with this I kind
of used some uh extra for the Christian
definition or Christianity definition of
service this is choosing to do something
for someone
um for someone else often in secret
without expecting something in return in
other words we see a need um and we meet
that need without expecting to hear
thank you or any type of
reciprocity um so what type or types of
service U opportunities May a Christian
have in their uh
lifetime um here are just three types of
service that I came up with um community
service um I have it listed as you know
volunteering as a lifeguard U
volunteering to clean up uh a park clean
up the beaches here in Florida um
sometimes uh we have people um that
volunteer at animal shelters um if you
are a basketball coach um you volunteer
your time and you're a mentor there um I
don't know if this is
still um part of the um application
process of to go to college but when I
went to college I had to have like 4 or
500 hours of community service um so I
know my community service was I went to
the nursing home uh in my area and I I
read the Bible to some of them I I I I
walked them around played uh board games
with them so that's what I um I I
remember community service um and I is
that still a requirement to go to
college okay that's what I thought all
right number two the service to Country
um of course when you think about
service to your country um what comes to
mind um military service many of you
have uh been part of the military thank
you for your service many of you or your
children or someone that you know has uh
are still members of uh the military I
came from a military family my father
was in the Army my brother was in the
Air Force all my uncles and cousins were
in Air Force
Marines um not me I became a death
investigator um no uh no military here
but service to Country Christians um can
uh be involved in that now the third
type of service that I want to talk
about and I want to stay uh here for the
uh remainder of my lesson if you don't
mind
is service in God's church or service to
God or service to the church um to me of
these three types of services um this is
one of the most important ones and it is
important
because um no other service plays a part
in getting us into heaven than our
service to the church or service to God
okay um 1 Thessalonians
1:99 um reads uh for they themselves
declare concerning us what matter of
Entry we have to you and how you turn to
God from Idols to serve the living and
true God service to God can be seen as
an active as actively dedicating one's
life to following Jesus's Christ Jesus
Christ's teachings demonstrating love
through actions such as sharing the
gospel living a morally upright
life fully participating in church
activities helping others viewing
oneself as a servant to God in all
aspects of life and in all aspects of
life not just during worship service so
here are some uh scripture references on
on um serving again tons of scripture in
the Bible that talks about how we should
serve uh the importance to serve
Commandments to Christians to serve but
I wanted to look at these here so the
first one here Galatians 5: 13 it reads
for you Brethren have been called to
Liberty only do not use Liberty as an
opportunity for the flesh but through
love serve one
another 1 Peter 4: 10 as each of us has
received a gift minister to minister it
to one another as good stewards of the
manifold grace of
God Proverbs 3: 27 reads do not withhold
good from those to whom it is due when
it is in the power of your hand to do so
and Philippians 2 uh Verses 4 Let each
of you look out not only for his own
interest but also for the interest of
others
again many more scriptures uh uh that
that are Commandments for the Christians
to serve
um not only do we read scripture we
actually during our services actually
sing songs about working I know growing
up uh in the church um y'all remember
the song I want to be a worker for the
Lord I mean just listen to some of these
words I I will work I will pray our
labor every day in the vineyard of the
Lord and then later in the song it says
in the Kingdom of the Lord um what about
um we'll work till Jesus comes I love
that song I love that song um it brings
back some great memories um so we sing
songs uh about working in the Lord's
Church um serving others serving a God
uh we have command commments uh to um we
have scripture references in the Bible
on serving so why is it hard at times
for us ourselves to serve or to get
others to serve alongside us uh for the
Lord's uh in the Lord's
Kingdom oh
sorry um
so don't raise hands or anything but and
this is when I when I when I started
this lesson this one this kind of
pricked me a little bit because before
um
I began really taking my Christian um my
Christian walk seriously some of these
ideas were in my mind don't raise your
hand but have you ever thought to
yourself if something was different in
your life you would serve God a little
bit
better whether it's I needed a better
job my job is getting in the
way um what about if I had more money I
could do this better I could serve the
Lord better I could give more
um what about um if I had a different
personality or if I had a different
family um I could serve better my not
not my wife but my wife does not go to
church and I would serve better if I had
a wife that allowed me to go to church
more those types of excuses and the
worst one and this is the one that gets
me uh the most
is somebody else will do it
that's
tough regardless of the excuses we make
for
ourselves I'd like us to realize one
thing God has us exactly where he wants
us and we should strive to serve him
right where we
are instead of wishing our situations
were better or making excuses uh for not
serving God each of us right now now
right where we are should serve God in
this very moment uh and we have
different talents and different
abilities that we could be using to
further God's Kingdom so what happens
when we have these thoughts well we need
to start uh changing our attitudes and
once we develop and change our attitude
then our service to God and serving God
gets to be a little bit more easy and
let's take take a look at some of these
attitudes um so here I picked again just
some of the um Christian attitudes that
I found in the
Bible um the first one we should be
thankful when we are able to serve God
first Timothy vers 12 reads I thank
Jesus Christ Our Lord who has enabled me
because he counted me faithful putting
me into the
ministry this scripture here clearly
says uh we should be thankful that God
has chosen us um to uh put us to serve
in whatever capacity uh we can right now
so we should be thankful we should not
act as our service is bothering
us number two we should have an attitude
of Happiness Psalms 14 Psalms
144: 15 reads happy are the people who
are such a state happy are the people
whose God is the Lord Psalms 146: 5
happy is he who has God of Jacob for his
help whose hope is in the
Lord his God Hebrews
2:9 but we see Jesus who was made a
little lower than the angels for the
suffering of death crowned with Glory
and Honor that he by the grace of God
might taste death for
everyone brothers and sisters God has
been so good to
us we don't have the capacity to truly
appreciate how good he's been so to
serve a master who is so good should be
joyous for us to serve him we should be
happy to serve a lord Lord who has done
so much for us number three we should
serve with diligence Colossians 3: 23
reads and whatever you do do it heartily
as to the Lord and not to men
Ecclesiastes 9: 10 says whatever your
hands find to do do it with your might
for there is no work or device or
knowledge or wisdom in the grave where
you going and then Romans 12: 11 not
lagging in diligent fervent in spirit
serving the
lord isn't it frustrating when you go to
a place um let's say you go to a
restaurant or you go to a place of
business and the person that is serving
you acts like they don't want to be
there that's
tough what's even worse is when you see
that same lack of
care in the work done for the kingdom of
God that's
tough if ever there were a service to be
rendered with Vigor and diligence it is
service offered to God it is service
offered uh to uh God's church and then
number four we should love we should
serve with love in John 13:1 it reads
when Jesus stooped to wash the feet of
his servants he did it because he loved
his own who were in the world in First
Corinthians uh 16: 14 Paul clearly
states let us all let all that you do be
done in
love
because we also know as Christians we
have to be careful that our service is
done in love because as 1 Corinthians 13
veres 1 through3 says it warns that any
service we offer to God no matter how
great will be rejected by him if it's
not done in
love we have to remember
that so once we have the right mindset
and the heart to serve the Lord how do
Christians go about serving the
lord number one we must make ourselves
available and look for
needs Philippians 2: 3 reads let nothing
be done through selfish ambition or
conceit but in loneliness of Mind Let
each esteem others better than himself a
lot of needs you know we we see that a
lot of needs show up at very
inconvenient
times very inconvenient times and we as
Christians cannot have the attitude that
we're going to serve people Monday
through Friday 9:00 a.m. to 5:00
p.m. that's
tough that's a tough one serving God
means Allowing God and the needs of
others to interrupt our plans and our
needs that's
tough number two we must give all to
every task and be consistent and finish
each task we take on
Proverbs 20:6 reads most men will
Proclaim each his own goodness but who
can find a faithful
man Christians should
serve F Christian servants should finish
their
task and fulfill their responsibilities
keep their promises and complete their
commitments Christian servants should
not leave have done um and they should
not leave jobs have done and should
never quit when they get discouraged it
is tempting uh to get sidetracked and
bogg down with things um and this can be
this can lead many Christians to quit
and give up on good works for the Lord's
Kingdom but we as Christians have to
remind ourselves and we have to remember
we keep our eyes on keep our eyes on the
prize um and that we are doing this to
uh further God's Kingdom any service
that we provide to our um to our fellow
man to the world to our fellow
Christians to our families um is not for
our benefit it is for the benefit of the
Lord there have been times where um
we've been uh working uh with an
individual and you never know when you
get a chance to speak about the goodness
of the lord and there have been plenty
of opportun unities where we've worked
and we were able to talk to someone
about the Lord It's the opportunity for
us to do that so um before um I get uh
before I start closing um I do want to
revisit the statement God has us exactly
where he wants us okay let us make sure
we don't make
excuses um for why we are serving in the
Lord's Kingdom as we should let us seek
opportunities to be a blessing to
everyone we meet um
and be thankful that we are at a church
who takes service to community and to
their members so uh seriously uh this
next slide is just a little bit of what
this great church and this great church
family does um many of you are a part of
these uh Ministries and these missions
you guys have no idea how much you are
helping um each and every one that you
touch but to come from a small
Congregation of like 30 or 40 members in
Tennessee that we only you know had one
mission that we supported we really
didn't go out and uh and and spread the
word as we should it is a blessing to be
a part of a congregation that has this
many opportunities uh to serve um uh
just going down the the list the Hope
closet that's part of the benevolence
Ministry uh many of us that are working
with the Hope closet are able to talk to
people while we're serving them while
they're they're able to get groceries
and clothes and housewares we are still
able to give them literature um offering
them uh opportunities to come to church
with us and some of them have come to
church uh based off of a hope closet um
Florida Bible Camp one of my favorite
things to do um going up and spreading
the word to our young kids um it's
something to get the kids out of the
house uh have they have fun we have fun
um but they learn about the Lord um
great great uh Ministry that we um we
are part of uh the and oh I don't think
it oh well I'll put it under the youth
group Vacation Bible School it is
amazing if anybody has been a part of
the Vacation Bible School um uh and I
apologize for not putting them in there
I'll say it's under youth group yeah
I'll put it under there um but uh
Vacation Bible School great great
service to uh the kids and the
communities but each and every one of
these great great um um um opportunities
for for individuals to become a part and
serve for the Lord now be on the lookout
for information about our our ministry
fairs because we as a congregation are
growing um we know that there are new
members here that uh may want to be part
of these Ministries and we encourage you
to be a part of these Ministries um so
just make sure that as you uh go uh
throughout uh uh the rest rest of rest
of your your Christian Life um that I
hope um you seek ways to serve God daily
right where you are okay don't wait for
a situation uh to um to to arise don't
don't wait for your situation to change
before you start uh working for the Lord
um because not
only um are we
blessed uh to have a congregation and
members here that are good examples uh
for uh being a servant we have the
ultimate um example of being a servant
and that's through Jesus
Christ his life death and Resurrection
set the ultimate example of what it
means to serve others uh we should look
to his life to learn from him and follow
his
example um in closing if you here
tonight and you're looking uh to find
ways to get more involved um there are
plenty of ministry leaders here tonight
that you could talk to you can chat with
about your current situation and the
current and talk about the current needs
of the church and see how you can be um
a part of that but before that if you
need to give your life over to Christ
for the first time or you have fallen to
the Wayside and need prayers from the
church to get back on track you have
that opportunity to do so as we stand
and we sing thank you
